We are now in the European Settlement, on the walk by the water, looking eastward, down the river, with a group of mission children gathered under the shade of a range of stately banyan-trees.
This island is only about three hundred yards in width, separated from the city of Canton by a narrow canal congested with every style of small craft.
It comprises chiefly the English and French concessions, and is considered one of the most beautiful and healthful foreign settlements in the Far East.
The consulates and the homes of foreigners are all located on the Shameen.
The whole island is a bower of beauty; the rows of fine modern buildings are flanked by magnificent banyan-trees, such as you see here on the river-front.
There are beautiful flower-gardens, tennis-courts, cycle paths and avenues of palms; and all the feathered tribes of the neighborhood seem to appreciate European conditions and protection; these beautiful trees are all alive with birds of brilliant plumage and melodious with birdsongs.
This particular promenade has a most euphonious name; it is called "Respondentia Walk."
But perhaps most interesting of all is this group of pretty and welldressed Chinese girls, who have been brought by their devoted American lady teacher from the other side of the river.
The little party filled a sampan and landed on the Shameen bright and early, because I had promised them one of their pictures.
They are children of the better class, well dressed and tidy and happy in expectation of receiving a picture.
The missionary influence on these children is marvelous; they have no superstitious dread of foreigners or cameras; they have been taught self-respect, and to respect foreigners; they are girls, and girls in China, you must know, when they are fortunate enough to escape infanticide, have but meager consideration, and they respond most touchingly to the love bestowed upon them by their affectionate teachers.
It is worth while noticing how beautifully they are attired, in silken garments, how carefully the hair is arranged after their fashion, smooth and glossy.
Notice also the one American child on the end of the stone seat, and the difference in features between the Caucasian and the Mongolian types; the stiff, straight, black hair of the latter, with oblique eyes, flat nose and rather poor facial lines generally, and the soft, flaxen ringlets that float about the prominent forehead of the former, with mouth and chin that are modeled on Hogarth lines of beauty.
