The public announcement that the death penalty by the "cage" was to be inflicted upon this notorious fiend created great excitement among the natives of Shanghai.
This means of execution had not been employed for many years; few had ever seen a criminal in a cage," which consists, as you can see, of a frame of rough sticks.
sufficiently high to allow a man to stand erect within.
Boards are placed close around his neck and made fast to the frame; flat stones are placed beneath his feet, supporting him about twelve inches above the ground.
After a stated time these stones are removed one by one, causing a gradual suspension by the neck and a slow strangulation.
Before the termination of this prolonged death penalty, the criminal in his cage is compelled to stand one day before each gate of the city.
There are six gates to the old city of Shanghai; that means a week of unimaginable fatigue before the scornful gaze of crowds in the thoroughfares.
During all that time public curiosity was increasing and the daily crowd was becoming larger.
When I heard of this unusual spectacle of a caged criminal, I arranged with a Chinese shopkeeper, with whom I had become acquainted, to go with me as interpreter, he being able to speak a little English.
Together we visited several gates before we could locate the prisoner.
We had heard beforehand that the condemned man was charging fifty cents each for snapshots.
When we finally found him he was surrounded by an impenetrable crowd of natives, and his charges had gone up to five dollars under a lively patronage.
We found we had to negotiate with the police in charge, who were evidently dividing the "squeezes" with the prisoner.
My Chinese friend succeeded after tedious parley in a surging crowd in reducing the license from five Mexican dollars to four, with the proviso that the crowd must be cleared out of the way, and that the prisoner must remove his hat and turn his face toward the light.
To this the police agreed and the four dollars had to be paid beforehand.
In this way the view was secured.
It is rare because this form of death penalty is rarely imposed.
Notice how he holds the straw hat, which by our verbal contract he was obliged to remove; and note also the peculiarities of his hair; his queue has been removed and his front hair allowed to grow.
This is always done with criminals.
The queue and the shaven front are marks of loyalty to the reigning dynasty and not permitted on the part of those under condemnation.
Notice the iron hasps on the side of the cage, through which poles are put to carry it from gate to gate; also the flat stones beneath his feet soon to be removed one by one.
His ruling passion (the "squeeze") is strong in death.
This is the last gate, and to-morrow means the removal of the first stone.
When the morrow came this poor callous wretch was dead; his friends had smuggled in to him during the last night a mortal draught, and he cheated the cage of its intended strangulation.
I asked my Chinese friend what this man, condemned to ignominious death, would do with this money.
He replied, "Give to his people."
Here again is filial piety.
His face is not so bad, less Mongolian than most in that horde behind; but the capacity for heartless crime was there, and he paid the penalty.
This is one of the many strange devices for torture and punishment practiced in China; further on in our itinerary I will explain others.
