Every one felt that the fleet-winged hours were clipping life threads at Pekin.
The difficulty was now to reach Tien-tsin and, in the meantime, to find a lodging place at Tongku.
All railway communication was cut off, and the military at Tien-tsin were driving civilians away, and no hotel or lodging place could be found in Tongku.
During the first night I was permitted to sleep on board the boat on which I had arrived.
On the second day I asked for permission to sleep on the bare deck of the "Monocacy," but my modest request was roughly refused by the Captain, who, with the officious consequence of a man commanding nothing better than an oldfashioned side-wheel tub that had been thirty years poking her prow into the mud banks along the Yang-tse, said he was reserving all space for missionaries.
Accompanied by a young Swiss gentleman, I trudged several times the length of the slough-bound town to obtain only space in which to sleep for one night, hoping the following day to find some way of reaching Tien-tsin.
Fortunately we fell in with a Russian officer, who, learning of our straits for a lodging place, in the blandest and most hospitable manner told us to follow him to the railway station and he would find us a room where he and his fellow officers were temporarily quartered.
A Russian servant was turned out of a small hot room which was furnished with two small benches; on these we slept, each wrapping his coat about his head as a protection against myriads of flies-army flies, I suppose.
I have often had occasion to entertain very high opinions of Russian gentility and politeness, while my opinions of the government are quite otherwise.
The charming manner of a Russian gentleman is remarked by every one; and if there is one fault more conspicuous than another in our own country, I should name it national lack of courtesy.
We made a slender morning repast from articles we bought from the steward of the German ship, and then I left my companion and set out to find transportation to Tien-tsin.
