After wandering about Tongku for some time I heard of a tug bound for Tien-tsin.
I went on board, and a soldier in command said he was neither authorized to carry nor to refuse to carry any one.
"Tien-tsin is the best place I know of to leave, just now; but go if you like," said the blunt commander of the little commissary craft.
Yesterday it was nip and tuck all day, and the Allies may be driven down here to-day, but if you are fond of shells bursting in your hair, go.
"Well, I've never experienced shells in that way," I replied, "but, as the Chinamen say, I will have a 'look see.'”
While the distance by rail is only some twenty-eight miles, it is forty by the winding course of the Pei-ho.
The voyage occupied a good part of the day.
Many mud villages were passed on the way, from most of which the inhabitants had fled back into the country.
We were constantly passing dead bodies floating down, and, on either bank of the river, at every turn, hungry dogs from the deserted villages could be seen tearing at the swollen corpses left on the banks by the ebb tide.
It was forty miles of country laid waste, deserted homes, burned villages, along a river polluted and malodorous with human putrefaction.
At last I was in Tien-tsin.
It was on the 5th of July.
Our national holiday I had celebrated under most unusual conditions at Tongku.
The fifth presented a weird proscenium in the theater of war.
The city had been reinvested; the previous day had witnessed a stubbornly contested attack at the railway station.
Everywhere were to be seen dreadful scenes of desolation.
Conflagration had already laid waste the entire French Concession and a good part of the English; housetops were covered with extemporized defenses; storehouses had been employed to provide defensive barricades; bales of wool, bags of peanuts, sacks of licorice-root and sacks of rice, in enormous quantities, had been utilized for breastworks.
Smoke was curling up everywhere from smoldering ruins.
Scarcely had I got my luggage ashore before shells came crashing over the settlement.
Three of the four hotels had been destroyed; the one remaining was occupied by the military.
I found an empty room in a vacated Chinese compound, where I made my bivouac until driven out.
