There are not many men in the world who have earned a wider celebrity than this member of the ruling dynasty.
Another prince has earned for himself an infamy as world-wide as this man's fame; I refer to Prince Tuan who was the head and inspiration of the Boxer horde, and who is now likely to reap the fate which due retribution will probably mete to him, that is, banishment or some other extreme penalty.
Prince Ching, who sits before us, has always been favorably disposed toward foreigners, and at the crucial moment, when the fate of the Legations and all the foreigners in Pekin was in the hands of the shuffling Yamên, he did not hesitate to admit that he had failed to convince the court of the danger of inactivity and that he was helplesss in adjusting matters.
When Sir Claude Macdonald found it was useless to discuss matters longer with the vacillating Yamên he demanded an interview with Prince Ching, who stated to him frankly that the government was not able to control the Boxers, and that foreigners could not expect protection either in Pekin or in any part of China.
Prince Ching was President of the Tsung-li Yamên, and for his suspected sympathy with the foreigners was suddenly removed from the head of the Yamên by the Empress, and the Boxer chief, Prince Tuan, appointed in his place.
There can be little doubt that only for these frank and friendly avowals of Prince Ching the Legations and all the Europeans would have attempted to obey the order which they had received to quit the capital and proceed to Tien-tsin; and this step, in the minds of everyone, would have resulted in indiscriminate slaughter.
Can we wonder then that there exists a kindly feeling toward this true prince, or that when peace commissioners were to be chosen from among the Chinese to confer with the foreign ministers in the settlement of the great question between the Empire and the Allies, that Prince Ching should be the choice of the nations whose representatives he had saved?
He has held many important positions besides being the head of the Foreign Office.
In 1885 he was appointed along with Prince Chun and Li Hung Chang to take control of naval affairs, and now he has been coupled with China's famous statesman and viceroy in the adjudication of the Empire's imbroglio with the world.
He is a near relative of the Emperor, and has now been mentioned as a possible successor to Li Hung Chang as Secretary of State and Viceroy; being so important a personage in the affairs of China and the world you can understand why our minister told me if I could secure his photograph I would "score a success."
Along with an irrepressible New York correspondent who had secured credentials to Prince Ching from the Secretary of Li Hung Chang, and, couriered through the ramshackle wilderness of the Tartar City by a native "boy," I reached the palace of Prince Ching in the extreme northwestern portion of the city.
See number 35 in black on Pekin map.
Like all Chinese palaces it is a series of courts flanked by low buildings on every side.
In an alley outside we were met by the official interpreter for the Prince, who explained to us that in a short time his excellency would receive us; finally we were taken to this interior court, where the Prince soon appeared and greeted us kindly.
The interpreter had, of course, already explained to him that we desired his photograph for the American people, who looked upon him as their friend.
His manner is grave and dignified, but with no sign of official dignity.
As you can see he is of medium stature and apparently about seventy years of age.
His garments are of heavy brocaded silk; the ample sleeves take the place of gloves; a magnificent ruby within a circle of pearls ornaments the front of his cap.
