Now, we are facing due east.
The narrow, muddy Pei-ho lies below us.
We see something of the scattered villages across the river, where Boxers found defenses from which they fired upon the settlement before the arrival of the relief forces.
We are here at the extreme southern end of the English Settlement and the native houses across the river are few, but to our left, up the river, they extend from the river-front well back into the plain.
At present they are everywhere in ruins; fire has obliterated every trace of a habitable home; but even after fire had done its work the enemy found secure points for "sniping" from among the ruins.
The tower on which we stand has been penetrated by several shells fired from two forts a mile farther up the river.
In this direction we again see the mud-wall, marking a distance of nearly two miles from the Native City.
Two more of the destructive lyddite guns were placed by the wall off to our left.
Other batteries of artillery had been planted on the wall in attempting to silence the two forts farther up the river, which had been a constant menace to the settlement.
Eastward, two miles from us, we see the East Arsenal, which was captured and burned by the relief expedition in June.
This East Arsenal was the initial point of the Russians, as the West Arsenal was of the other Allies.
Russian cavalry, infantry and artillery spread out and advanced over that plain toward the East Gate of the Native City and the forts on the river.
The ground, as you see, is perfectly level; there is no cover for advancing troops, and the Russians have not yet learned the art of taking shelter by prostrating themselves on the ground; they were raked by rifle fire from the villages and by shell from the forts on the river.
From dawn through the long, hot day, the Russian troops advanced slowly but tenaciously, against overwhelming odds; by nightfall they had captured the forts which had wrought so much destruction and caused so much anxiety; but they had not entered the Native City.
