This Bible-woman is seated on the veranda of the home of Mr. and Mrs. Nelson, located in the Shameen.
These devoted workers in the field of the foreign mission were evidently much interested in this woman, and spared no effort to enable me to secure views of native types, who under their Christian influence had come to think of foreigners in a reasonable way.
Bible-women perform a special work in the mission field.
Mr. Nelson explained to me the difficulty of reaching Chinese homes; only men can go to the services when general meetings are held, for it is not considered proper in China for women to assemble with men, or even for young women and ladies of the better class to be seen on the street.
In order, therefore, that the homes may be reached and mothers and daughters taught to forsake their idolatrous ways, elderly native Christian women are chosen and specially trained and educated for this work.
Elderly women are chosen because they will be tolerated and respected when young women would be insulted.
When trained for this special work they are called Bible-women.
This Biblewoman is fifty-three years of age; her name is Mak; she belongs to the middle class; is a widow, and had an only son who died of the plague three years ago.
The son had been converted to the Christian religion some time before he was stricken with the dreadful malady.
On his death bed his faith in his new found “Nirvana was so firm and strong as to turn his mother, who had never been in a Christian church, to the same source of consolation and hope.
She applied to Christian women to learn about Jesus; then she applied for admission to the Woman's School of the American Board.
She was admitted; but she could neither read nor write.
She at once set to work to learn the Chinese characters; she did not ask for aid, but supported herself by selling needles, thread, yarn, etc.
She made rapid progress in reading and in Gospel knowledge.
Mr. Nelson says it is a common thing to see her with her Testament in hand going out from the school to sit at some home and tell the "Story."
Her education necessary for the best work is not yet complete, but while now doing a good work she is still engaged in educating herself.
She is very correct in her deportment, and, to show how quick she is to observe, Mr. Nelson tells that when she first entered their foreign built house she remarked: "Your religion is better than the Chinese religions; you are even allowed to move your chair about and sit where you please; while in a Chinese house chairs are not to be moved from their places against the walls."
These women are paid not more than two dollars and a half a month, barely enough for food and clothing.
In reference to their value and efficiency in the mission field, I give Mr. Nelson's exact words in a letter to me: "One cannot overestimate the amount of good done in China by a Bible-woman, and there are many doing work which far outshines that of their sisters in this country (America).
It can be said of many of these humble workers what the Lord said of Mary-'She hath done what she could.'"
