You have not forgotten that great side-wheel steamer that lay within our first panorama overlooking the river at Canton; we now go on board of her and in a few hours we shall be landed back in Hongkong, our startingplace.
From Hongkong we shall go northward over a treacherous sea that is the terror of navigators, the China Sea, and through the Formosa Channel to Shanghai, almost a thousand miles north.
But what will it cost, do you say?
Well, that depends on your purse, or maybe on your fancy or on your economics; maybe it depends on your bringing up.
If you have but recently quit your mother's apron-strings or have been accustomed to a nice bed from which you had to lay away the lovely pillow-shams every night, why you must go first class, by the French Mail or the P. & O., which will cost you about fifty dollars.
If you are a graduate from the school of hard experience you can go third class on any of the lines plying between the two ports for about fifteen dollars.
An intermediate passage, comfortable for those not disturbed by three days of plain living, may be secured for twentyfive dollars.
So, then, circumstances being a dictator, let us decide and take one of the many boats that leave Hongkong and touch at Shanghai.
But why do I say that our route lies over a part of the ocean that is the terror of navigators?
Simply because at certain seasons disastrous tornadoes occur on that sea and in the Formosa Channel.
The channel is not very wide, and for that reason it is particularly dangerous during typhoons; but we shall pass through in the early spring and typhoons prevail mostly in midsummer.
Therefore, we have nothing to dread.
In three days we shall be in Shanghai.
In the meantime, on our way, I must tell you something about that city, and when we arrive we shall find an elevated position as we did at Canton, from which we can get a general view.
If we turn to Map No. 2, the map of "Eastern China," we find the route line in red which shows our course from Canton to Shanghai.
