The native commerce on this small stream, in boats like these, in times of peace, is enormous.
The river is narrow and shallow and is frequently silting up and changing 259 its bed.
The boats touch the banks at many points and one can debark and embark almost at any time without stopping the progress of the fleet.
I found walking on the tow-path in the cool autumn weather much pleasanter than the deck of a junk like this, and I walked the greater part of the distance between Tien-tsin and Pekin.
Standing here, we get a true aspect of the Pei-ho and the kind of boats that ply the river; we see also the level character of the river plain and the small growth of shrubbery and trees in the distance.
We get some idea of the alluvial soil, though we do not see the prevailing crops.
We happen to be at a place on the river where the cultivated fields do not extend up to the river bank.
The soil everywhere is exceedingly rich, and alternating crops of corn, millet, beans, sweet potatoes, peanuts, sorghum and melons have marked the fertile valley all the way between these two great cities.
But the crops have not been harvested; the villages and homes are deserted.
I said the crops had not been harvested-I meant by the owners; many of them for almost a mile on either side of the river have been plundered by the men of the junk-fleets belonging to the different armies.
The native junkmen were permitted to go ashore and gather in corn and millet to fill all the empty space available; the Europeans took whatever they could use.
The inhabitants had fled well back from the river, leaving crops and sometimes live stock.
Many a pig that had been left behind and ventured to the river bank became a victim to the deadly army rifle.
Occasionally some of the people who had fled from their homes returned under cover of night to gather in something of their wasting harvest.
It was a sad sight to see such vast fields of valuable crops being lost, and cold winter near at hand and starvation awaiting many.
On one occasion I attempted, while walking, to cut off a great bend in the river by what I imagined would be a short way across country.
After penetrating about three miles I reached villages containing skulking refugees, at least stragglers, partially in hiding.
At first sight of me they scampered pell-mell into the forests of millet; this grain is often from twelve to fifteen feet high and affords a safe and interminable retreat.
At one farm where a poor old woman carrying a bundle of grain on her back attempted to cross the road some fifty yards ahead of me, and little suspecting the presence of a "foreign devil" so far back from the river, furtively cast her eyes both ways on the road.
She spied me, dropped her bundle as though she had been fired upon, jumped into the dry millet field and in a moment was out of sight.
It gave me a sensation of sadness I never before experienced, and even now, long afterward, it steals over me when I recall the incident—an innocent, harmless fellow mortal fleeing from me in frenzied terror.
She thought I sought her life; and to be suspected of seeking to take life shocked me, I dare say, as much as my presence frightened her.
It is almost a pity that this terrified woman could not have known that the alarm was mutual.
By this time I had decided that the road I had been following did not lead to the river, and was on my way back by the same road on which I had come.
I was sure I was among Boxers.
I had no weapon whatever about me.
I secured two cornstalks and arranged them to have the appearance of a gun and carried this makebelieve affair as I would have carried a gun so that Boxers back in the fields would think I was not defenseless.
In this mood of nervous apprehension I was working my way back when the poor terrified woman dived into the field of millet.
We were much in the same condition except that my fright up to that point had not settled in my heels quite to the same extent as hers.
I, however, made good time back to the river.

