General Chaffee's permit is only for transportation.
Each traveller must supply his own provisions, cooking utensils and bedding.
These quaint craft need little description, as they are before you.
They draw only two or three feet of water; their shallow holds are filled with army supplies.
The only sleeping-place is under those tarpaulins thrown over the poles, and the season is so far advanced that the north winds are exceedingly uncomfortable.
Each boat has a crew of five or six native boatmen, one of whom acts as captain, each junk being in charge of a soldier who cooks his own meals on board.
Every boat has a small cabin, in which the crew cook and sleep.
With a favorable wind, a sail is used; at other times each boat is towed by the crew with a line attached to the top of the mast.
Other lines radiate from the main line to accommodate the several men on the tow-path.
The progress upstream with the tow-line is scarcely a mile an hour, and the average time of a passage to TungChow is five or six days.
You see this fleet of junks before us is being propelled by the tow-line while its sails remain unfurled; you see also something of the tortuous course of the river.
At certain turns of the river the wind is favorable and the sail is spread.
Have you noticed how those slender bamboo poles are used for expanding the sail?
Sometimes neither the tow-line nor the sail can be used; then poles are employed; these are thrust into the muddy bottom at the bow, the end is placed against the shoulder and then the coolies walk rapidly to the stern of the boat, thumping heavily the deck with their feet at every step.
This habit of pounding with their feet at every step as they push from bow to stern is one of the strangest customs among these boatmen.
They seem to think that it adds to their effort in pushing.
The effect during the still hours of night is very curious-they "keep step," and there are often several fleets passing in opposite directions at the same time, and the rhythmic pounding of so many bare feet on the hollow sounding decks in the dead of night I cannot forget.