The Gegen is usually a Tibetan, as are many of the members.
Of course this temple is a monastery as well as a temple.
Buddhism in northern Asia is called Shamanism, from the Chinese words Hwang-kiao, which signify yellow sect, because the Buddhistic order of priests the world over wear yellow robes.
The pontiff of Shamanish is the Grand-Lama or Da lai Lama at Lassa.
Mongolia and Tibet swarm with Lamas.
The Lamas have a decalogue which is not unlike the Mosaic in many points: (1) Do not kill. (2) Do not steal. (3) Do not commit fornication. (4) Speak not falsely. (5) Drink no wine nor eat flesh. (6) Look not on gay silks or necklaces, use no perfumed ointment, and paint not the body. (7) Neither sing nor dance, and do no sleight of hand tricks or gymnastic acts, and go not to see or hear them. (8) Sit not on a high, large couch. (9) Do not eat out of time. (10) Do not grasp hold of living images, gold, silver, money or any valuable thing.
The tenth will be a sore test for the average mortal.
The great resemblance of the ceremonials of the Buddhists and those of the Romish Church has led to much discussion as to which has copied from the other.
The distinguished scholar and writer, Abbe Huc, enumerates some of the similarities as follows: "The cross, the mitre, the dolmatica, the cape which the Lamas wear on their journeys, or when performing some ceremony out of the temple; the service with double choir, the psalmody, the exorcism, the censer suspended from five chains, which you can open or close at pleasure; the benedictions given by extending the right hand over the heads of the faithful; the rosary, ecclesiastical celibacy, spiritual retirement, worship of saints; the fasts, processions, litanies, and holy water-all these are analogies between ourselves and the Buddhists."
Some claim that Lamaism and Buddhism have copied their ritual from Romanism and others that Romanism has derived its forms from paganism, and there have been those who argue that the simulation of the ceremonials of the two religions is a machination of the devil; however, ceremonials are but ceremonials, and we will look again at these representatives of Lamaism in their dirty yellow, cotton robes, and with their shaven heads.
The tenets of their religion may be well enough and their rituals well enough, but what sort of an exposition of a religious life can we expect from men and boys of types like those before us.
I suppose in all religions we must expect great discrepancies between tenets and their exemplification.
The Lama's tenth commandment says: "Do not grasp hold of living images, gold, silver, money or any valuable thing," and some of these priests followed me at least a half-mile clamoring all the way for money, and extortionate money; at last I compromised for a Mexican dollar.
There is a fine bronze lion beyond the priests with a much better countenance than most of these disciples of the Da lai Lama at Lassa.
