Across the harbor immediately before us, and to the right of the projecting headland, are situated the city and harbor of Kowloon, at which are dry docks that will accommodate the largest warships.
We can faintly see the docks across that small bay point of land, to the right of the city.
It was there that several of the Spanish warships destroyed by our fleet in Manila Bay were taken for reconstruction under the supervision of the brave hero of the "Merrimac," Lieutenant Hobson.
The water front at Kowloon is lined with piers to accommodate the largest ocean ships.
It is out there at Kowloon that all cargoes to and from distant ports are loaded and discharged.
Vast storehouses, or "godowns" as they are named in the East, to accommodate transshipment, are ranged near the piers.
It is estimated that the actual trade of the European colony, exclusive of the cargoes which pass through this port without breaking bulk, is over 100,000,000 pounds per annum.
Many passenger steamers for Europe and America coal and embark passengers from the docks at Kowloon; but the boats of the Pacific Mail, the Canadian Pacific and most of the great lines for Europe receive and discharge their cargoes and embark and debark passengers at their anchorage in the harbor, which extends a mile or more on either hand in the bay between us and the opposite shore.
The harbor front at Kowloon presents a busy scene; rail-trucks are constantly thundering back and forth between the long piers and the godowns, coolies, in long lines, waddling under heavy loads carried on bamboo poles, pass to and fro uttering a weird, rhythmical cry which they think helps to dispel a consciousness of physical burden.
At frequent intervals small steam ferry-boats ply between Hongkong and Kowloon, carrying first-class passengers at five-cent fares and second-class at half that amount.
I must remind you, however, that the busy commercial port we see across the bay is not the native city of Kowloon.
What we see is chiefly the result of England's commercial development.
A water-front embracing about three square miles was here added to the colony of Hongkong thirty-five years ago.
Before this section was ceded to the English, it had been a haunt for smugglers and all the lawless rabble around about.
A few miles out among those low hills a granite bowlder marks the place of the surrender of the last of the Taipings.
