In the meantime, permit me to offer some opinions on this last demonstration of agitators in China.
Notwithstanding all that has been said and written about Boxers and the Boxer movement, it is very difficult to determine the cause and object of this uprising.
It is generally admitted, as I have elsewhere stated, that the Chinese are a docile and peace-loving people, and yet, social agitations are not infrequent, and the great Taiping Rebellion, in which over twenty million lives were sacrificed, occurred only forty years ago.
An old proverb says: "Beware of the wrath of the patient man."
The most peace-loving sometimes become rebellious, and when such is the case desperation marks the conflict.
It will scarcely be denied that want sows the seeds of revolution and rebellion, and when the struggle for existence becomes general and prolonged, suffering humanity will organize into protective unions, or into I-HoChuan Societies.
China's great fertility and her vast territorial area are sometimes insufficient for her teeming millions, especially in the North, where whole provinces are often famine-stricken by reason of flood or drought or pestilence.
An empty stomach does not make for peace, either in the home or in the State.
The Taiping Rebellion, the most bloody, disastrous and long-continued that has occurred in China in modern times, was inaugurated by a secret organization of insurrectionaries with the usual high-sounding name, Taipings, which signifies "grand peace," with the ostensible purpose of overthrowing the Manchu dynasty, whose corrupt and oppressive administration of affairs had exhausted the patience as well as the earnings of the people; in other words, it was hunger that brought about that bloody revolution.
Want and peace cannot dwell together.
A few years ago about ten millions are said to have died of starvation in the northern provinces bordering on the Hoang Ho, a river which has been called “China's Sorrow," because of the loss of life caused by flood, famine and pestilence.
This same poverty-stricken region has been the nursery of Boxers.
While, then, I regard stress. of environment as the primal cause of nearly all insurrectionary uprisings, the immediate causes often appear to be something quite different to the ignorant and unreasoning insurgent.
The Boxer, in his struggle for existence, sees the cause in commercial encroachments; he sees the railway driving his wheelbarrow and carrypole out of business; he sees the steamboat supplanting the house-boat and the sampan; he sees the modern carriage and bicycle relegating the sedan chair; he sees all kinds of machinery interfering with his manual labor.
His Confucian classics never taught him how it is possible for a missionary to do a benevolent work.
He looks upon him as the emissary and forerunner of foreign commercialism.
Altruism is not in the Confucian code.
I believe that any of us with a mind cast in the same mould and with the same training for generations, would be little, if any, different.
An illiterate and superstitious populace will never discover first causes; struggle and stress of circumstances, then, sets the Boxer to looking around for the immediate cause of his ill conditions; he may turn against the ruling dynasty, or against the introduction of railroads, or against coercive land-grabs, or against the beneficent hand which has come from distant lands to lift him into better conditions.
Then there are Boxer leaders and Boxer followers-the more intelligent and the ignorant horde who will play the Boxer for plunder.
But it is well to remind ourselves again that after all human nature is much the same the world over.
When times are dull and distress prevails, a popular howl goes up against the government administration, or an army of malcontents marches on Washington, or a wailing and lamentation is heard about unrestricted immigration.
Western countries are full of Boxers; but efficient military forces keep them in check.
It has always been so, and will probably always remain so.
Throughout all nature there must always be a certain amount of imperfection; the consequence is distress; the attempted remedy is I-Ho-Chuan Societies, under many different names.
I use the words "must always be" advisedly; some I know will not agree with this; but I mean, of course, until the millennial days when the rose shall be thornless and the bee shall be without sting and when "the lamb and the lion shall lie down together."
Until then human nature will continue to be human nature, or, in other words, there shall continue to be wars and rumors of wars," and Boxers of many sorts.
