Embroidery is a high art in China.
It is carried to wonderful perfection.
The garments of the upper classes are decorated most elaborately in richest colors of the rarest needle-craft.
Nearly all garments are made of either silk or satin.
Embroidery is the crowning glory of every wardrobe, and a wardrobe in China is not pretentious until it reaches a value of from five to ten thousand dollars.
It is one of the chief manual industries of the country.
It is all hand-work and performed by women and girls in the homes and not in factories.
It is not confined to wearing apparel.
It is for furniture, wall decoration, screens, indeed, for everything in which rich silk fabric can form a part, from chair cushions to the royal robes of the Imperial Court.
For skill in this cunning the Chinese women are unexcelled.
Birds, butterflies, flowers, life figures and portraiture are all marvelously executed in the most exquisite colors and designs.
Their national trait of patience is the prerequisite for embroidery.
Here you see a number of girls, nearly all from families of the better class, some grown to womanhood, others little tots, all neatly attired and as diligent as ants, at work on pieces of embroidery, stretched on sticks, after the fashion of the quilting frame of bygone days.
It would be impossible, in all China, nay, in all the world, I am inclined to think, to find a more comely and cultured group of girls than these; so gentle, so refined, so modest.
No high-pitched voices, no rivalry in smart talk, no gossip, but infinite skill in their handicraft.
It is impossible to realize how many such as these were sacrificed during the Boxer war.
At the time I was here these pure young hearts were saddened with the dread of the coming night.
It was at the beginning of that uprising when many feared an attack at Shanghai.
And at this school several natives and others connected with the mission were doing guard duty every night; but no attack was ever made.
Distance destroys sympathy, and those far away cannot realize how terribly cruel and wanton and widespread was the butchery of innocence in that relentless war.
This school is located quite away from the European settlement in one of the suburbs of the native city and is surrounded altogether by a native population.
It was apparently under excellent management, and when these girls were allowed for the first time to look at some of Underwood & Underwood's stereoscopic photographs through the stereoscope, they were quite overpowered with curiosity, wonder and amazement; and when they learned they were to be stereographed they hopped about in the most lively fashion, as girls are wont to do when their joy becomes ecstatic.
They could scarcely be longer held at the plodding work of embroidery; they were all in a frolic when Miss Cogdal gave license for a romp in the yard.
Then to show me how Occidental these Oriental girls are becoming under Western tuition, Miss Cogdal assembled her little flock for an exercise with the dumbbells.
You may now see them in their beautiful garden.
