The fire to the right is in the interior of the city; that to the left is at the South Gate, the objective point of attack by the Allies on the west side of the river.
Every gate has a massive superstructure of wood; that of the South Gate is burning fiercely; with our field-glasses we can see the red tongues of flame licking the sky.
All the batteries There the Allies have been directing their fire upon it. must enter, if at all.
The bravest men cannot scale a twenty-five-foot wall; they must enter at the gate.
We can hear the order given.
There is an occasional lull to allow the overheated guns to cool; then the quick muzzle flashes begin again, followed by the deafening roar and earthquake shocks.
This has continued since dawn; there has been no lull in the steady roll of rifle fire; the fitful popping of the automatic guns sometimes joins in the hellish chorus.
In such a long continued storm of deadly missiles of destruction one wonders if one soul can be left alive.
It is now the hottest hour of the day and the hottest hour of the battle.
The sky is cloudless; the sun is merciless; the thermometers register nearly a hundred in the shade; and there, before us over that torrid plain, are scattered eight thousand men, under a scorching sun, without shelter of any kind save the shelter they find in prostrating themselves in filthy pools and quagmires, and yet enduring throughout this long, hot day the well-directed and well-protected fire of some fifty thousand Boxers and Imperial troops.
The territory to our extreme left here was to our extreme right before (Stereograph No. 52).
The English and the Ninth U. S. Infantry are fighting near each other to the right of the South Gate.
The plucky little Japanese are beyond; they are easily distinguished in white uniform.
Some one in our eager group of spectators calls out: "See the Japs advance on the double-quick!"
All glasses are up to see the bold little heroes rush forward for a hundred yards under a withering fire and then drop out of sight in the long grass and mud; next some one directs attention to a charge of Russian cavalry on the plain across the river-a long advancing cloud of dust which meant that the cavalry was within it.
We turn again toward the west and see riderless horses galloping back to the arsenal; many of the Allies are now lost to sight among the outlying houses in the villages near the wall, and in the long reeds which cover the ground in places.
Night is coming on, and the ponderous gates are still closed and intact, being within a square court and not exposed to shells.
The Allies are within two hundred yards of the city walls, but not even the lyddite shells have breached the walls or gates.
To charge these walls would mean destruction and slaughter; to retreat meant the same.
It is defeat, but only those at the front know it; worse still, it is defeat without possibility of retreat.
Surrender means indiscriminate slaughter with such an enemy.
Night is coming on and darkness will enable the Allies to withdraw; and what a welcome night it is to those weary men who have borne the brunt of battle and the broiling sun from early morn till darkness-no food, no water, no shelter, and every hour of the long day under a raking fire.
We on the roof wonder how men can live under such a fire; we talk of the dead and wounded now scattered over those fields where they will remain for the night, sweltering in bloody garments, on beds of mire.
Darkness is to be the salvation of the Allies, for they retired under cover of night to the mudwall, where mud-stained and blood-stained, weary and hungry, they caught snatches of sleep on their arms.
