Although we are on the same roof as before, we have so changed our position as to be able to see a number of citizens and one or two missionaries with their fieldglasses watching the progress of the battle.
Notice how some look in one direction and some in another; some are watching the bursting of the lyddite shells at the South Gate, which we hope to enter to-morrow morning if the Allies are successful; some are looking at the burning city, toward which we shall look soon; others are watching the shells from the Chinese guns on the wall of the city, which are exploding over the Allies.
You can see where one shell has just exploded to the right of the arsenal.
Now we can follow the course of the mud-wall as it runs from the West Arsenal toward the settlement on our left.
A little farther to our left than we can now see five or six guns from H. M. S. " Terrible" are mounted along this wall; these we shall also see to-morrow, if all goes well, when we move in that direction to enter the city.
Also, beyond our vision limit to the left, near the same wall, two twelve-pound lyddite guns are placed; just across the street, not fifty yards. away, is the City Hall, on the tower of which is the signal corps with a telephone communication with these guns, and we can hear the orders given to the gunners.
Seemingly half-way between us and the West Arsenal you see a cluster of buildings sheltered by walls; near that place the Japanese have a field battery; and farther to the right the Sikhs have another.
As we stand here all of these guns and many others are belching lurid flames, while the earth seems to tremble with their unceasing roar.
The Grand Canal, coming from the southward, reaches the mud-wall off to the left of the arsenal; a small canal extends from the Grand Canal to the Pei-ho, running close behind the mud-wall.
Many of the troops now engaged passed out during the night behind that wall; others passed over those low, grassy plains to the left until on a line with the arsenal, taking shelter behind the wall till the order was given for a general advance.
The night movement was intended to conceal the intended attack; but spies had apprised the enemy and they were well prepared.
