This Imperial retreat is called Wan-Shou-Shan, which signifies Hill of Ten Thousand Ages, and has been used as the summer residence of the Empress since the destruction of the original Summer Palace at Yuen-Ming-Yuen, which lies a mile to the north of this place.
Yuen-MingYuen was destroyed by a former invasion of "Allies" in 1860.
Before its destruction it was a magnificent place four and one-half miles in circumference, covered with all sorts of beautiful and luxurious structures.
Since its demolition by the Allies in 1860 it has only partially been restored and Wan-Shou-Shan continues to be the Summer Palace.
From this point you are able to look across the small lake from an island near the south shore.
You know that the Palace in Pekin was a city of itself, a Forbidden City, rather than one palatial structure.
We find the same here-almost a small city forming an amphitheater on the southern slope of the hill and around the western shore of the lake.
Our field of vision includes enly a section of the numerous buildings that extend for nearly a half mile along the shore of the lake.
The slope of the hill and the edge of the lake is covered with trees and studded with villas and arcades.
Off to the right, but not within our range of vision are landing stages, near which are moored row-boats, sail-boats and two small steam yachts, all toys of the Empress.
The most conspicuous object before us on the opposite side of the lake is a gigantic structure or terrace built of solid masonry, and ascended on either side by stone stairways, which are shown on that perpendicular wall by the dark lines.
The terrace is surmounted by a huge tower, temple or pagoda.
It has been called a temple, but I could find no one on the grounds who knew its purpose.
I would naturally consider it an Imperial out-look tower.
It is covered with glazed yellow tile and can be seen sparkling in the sun at a great distance.
Later, before leaving the Summer Palace, we shall pass around the lake and ascend the hill to the left of that tower near the wall.
We shall stand just before that bush by the wall, on a line with the tower where we can obtain a near view.
