Here we have a perfect example of the stupid, sullen, gazing crowd that assembles instantly wherever a foreigner halts for a moment; and this is not peculiar to Canton, but to every part of the country.
We are standing on the English bridge with our back to the island, and this strong iron gate is a barrier to prevent the natives from entering the foreign settlement.
It is closed securely at night, and during the day is guarded closely by native police, who permit Europeans to enter the native city and duly authorized Chinese to enter the foreign quarters.
The street along which this crowd is passing faces the canal over which we stand, and runs parallel with the island of Shameen and the river.
I had, up to this moment, been photographing the busy scene on the canal from the bridge on which we stand; so the crowd in a twinkling surged up to the gate to view the operation.
Knowing that any appearance of deliberately making a picture of this gaping horde would scatter them precipitately beyond reach, I focus for the proper distance while the camera is aimed in another direction, swing instantly on the tripod, expose and return to the original position, without arousing their suspicion.
This I repeat several times for duplicate views without provoking a smile.
Look over this mélange of faces and see how many smiles you will discover.
It is a facial mosaic of sullenness, coldness and cruelty-a study for the physiognomist.
There are none of the upper class in this group; a few wear caps, indicating a position above the majority, who are bareheaded coolies; there are a few boys; but, as usual, no women.
We can see dimly, across the narrow street, a drug-shop with a modern lamp suspended from the ceiling, and shelves of bottles on two sides of the room which has its whole front thrown open to the street.
This shop is considerably patronized by the Europeans, and usually some one in it can be found who can speak a few words of English.
The Chinese, like some of our own people, have great faith in medicinal properties.
They advertise and issue pamphlets setting forth the cureall principles of their discoveries and preparations, and undoubtedly do a flourishing business in an empire where from fifty to seventy-five per cent. of the people are illiterate.
