Seated on one of these black stools we are permitted to look around; if you spy any drunken men about do not fail to call my attention, because, while I have been many times in these tea-houses, I have never yet seen any in such a condition.
A tea-house usually consists of two large rooms furnished with many small tables and square stools, as you see here.
The rooms are decorated with handsome mirrors, rich carving in wood, and elegant painted wall-screens.
You see the tops of these tables are of mottled marble; the frame-work and the stools are of rich black wood.
The rooms are lighted by large lanterns of glass set in wooden frames, which you can see suspended from the ceiling.
There is a fine French-plate mirror just behind that little fellow advancing with a plate of sweetmeats.
In the rear of this room there is a large kitchen where professional cooks, noted for their cleanliness, are employed in making all sorts of pastry.
A peculiar feature of these kitchens is the large stock of boiling water kept on hand and sold at two cash a kettleful-two cash being about one-eighth of a cent.
This is a rather clever bit of economy where fuel is quite expensive, and, some time, perhaps, stands for the sale of hot water may become a paying business in America when the exigencies of vastly increased population compel a more grinding economy.
As guests enter and seat themselves at these tables, trays of sweetmeats and fruits of many sorts are placed on the tables occupied.
Small cups of tea, well made but never strong as it is taken in Western countries, are also placed before the guests.
When the temperate, harmless beverage is finished, guests, the occasional guests, are expected to leave and give place to others; but the man of leisure may be expected to spend his excess of time here in tea-inspired sociality with friends and neighbors.
To increase the hilarity proprietors often engage vocalists and professional story-tellers and reciters who sing and relate and recite all day long.
Smaller rooms are connected with these places in which those addicted to the opium habit can retire to inhale the fumes of that seductive alkaloid.
But, you will say, is not the opium habit as pernicious in its effects as that of alcohol?
In a word I would answer, No.
I think the two habits do not admit of comparison.
Old men are found here who, between their pipes and occasional cups of tea, pass away many weary hours.
All classes are found here; but not both sexes.
It is not considered proper for females to frequent the tea-houses.
Public thoroughfares are naturally chosen for tea-rooms; they are, therefore, not infrequently found adjoining temples and yamens.
This, then, is what I have called the national resort of China, with seldom anything more than tea for a beverage and sweetmeats and the pipe as indulgences.
You see these men at the tables; the trays of cakes and fruits have been mostly removed; the small teacups may be refilled.
The delicious tea costs less than a cent a cup; there is no drunkenness here; there are no bar-room brawls; there may be the mild merriment and sociability that come of theine, but not the maniacal madness of alcohol.
I leave further comparison between the beer-saloon of the West and the tea-house of the East for your own making.

