These curious structures, resembling gateways, are called pai-lau, and may be found scattered over the Empire.
They are erected to commemorate distinguished men, or by officers in memory of their parents.
Permission to erect a pai-lau must be obtained from the Emperor, and such permission is always looked upon as a high mark of honor.
They are sometimes put up in honor of women who have been noted for purity and filial devotion, and also in honor of widows who have declined a second marriage.
Sometimes men erect ante-mortem pailau to themselves.
They have frequently been called triumphal arches, but this is altogether a misnomer, for where there have been no triumphs surely there can be no triumphal arches; besides, they are never in the form of an arch.
They are sometimes constructed of stone, but more generally of wood, and often elaborately carved.
There is sometimes a massive profusion of bracket work below a heavy protecting roof of tiling, indeed, one of the strangest peculiarities of Chinese architecture is an exaggerated system of complex bracket work, and this may generally be seen in the pai-lau.
These commemoration portals are usually placed in streets before temples and government offices; sometimes, however, ordinary gateways placed at the ends of streets are mistaken for honorary portals.
I suppose you have observed the triplicate form of the pai-lau-any number outside of three and its multiples, you will remember, is as fatal as the ill-omened thirteen.
Here we have a perspective of three portals all lying between the Forbidden City and the Mei-shan.
We erect statues and tablets to commemorate persons of distinction; the Chinese erect pai-lau and place a tablet thereon, their statues being chiefly confined to the temples.
You see the tablets on these, the first being by a free translation, "Blessing for the People," and the one on the second pai-lau, "A Bright Sky and Clear Mirror," whatever that may mean.
From these mottoes it is evident they are public memorials.
