This scene is not only full of beauty; it is full of life and instruction.
The beauty of those buildings and rows of trees with well-kept lawns and walks and well-paved streets is enhanced by the recollection that it is in the heart of China, six hundred miles from the sea.
I expected to find a few Europeans here, but not this charming vista of 136 modern buildings and beautified grounds.
I expected Western conditions at Shanghai, but not at Hankow.
We are looking eastward and down the river; behind this line of trees, on our right, is another promenade, overlooking the broad river and some fifty feet above it, flanked by a protecting wall.
Long flights of stone steps lead down to steamboat landings at different places.
The great river is here nearly a mile in width, full of life and activity.
It is instructive to know that this state of affairs has been established here since 1858, when, by the treaty of Nankin, Hankow became an open port.
The native quarter is very unlike this; it is, as I have remarked of other native cities, redolent of every known and unknown odor and teeming with filthy myriads of human life.
I was told that several Chinese gentlemen of Hankow made an effort to persuade their fellow townsmen to attempt to model the native city in some measure after the European Settlement, but the proposition met with so little favor that it was given up.
To change the ways of the masses of the Chinese people promises to be a "steady job."
Here again, we see few, if any, Europeans; this will be partially explained if you notice the shortness of the shadows cast by those figures in the foreground; I mean that you may see it is near midday, when Europeans, in hot weather, are seldom on the streets; but the whole place is animated with coolies, many of them pole-coolies, as they are called, because nearly all transportation is done by them by means of these poles.
One coolie will carry a hundred-weight on each end of one of these poles.
A coolie holds his carry-pole in great esteem, for it is his means of livelihood.
We are here standing on the balcony of the Town Hall, and when I attempted to make this view the people near at hand fled as though Mara (Chinese Pluto) had suddenly arisen in their midst; a "Fangqwei" with a camera is scarcely less dreaded.
This street immediately below us was entirely vacated.
The idea occurred to me that if I should cast handful of cash down into the street, cupidity might overcome superstition and bring the coolies close again.
I have previously explained to you that seventeen cash are equal to one cent and make a good handful.
I gave to my native porter a handful of cash and explained to him how, at a given time, he must throw the cash to the coolies below.
I returned to an inner room to prepare my apparatus, and when I returned and asked my porter where the cash was he replied: "Coolie have got."
The stupid fellow, not understanding my directions, had thrown them to the street in my absence; but they had served a good purpose, for, by this time, the street was full as you see it now, all eager and expectant.
I threw another handful, which was instantly followed by a chaos of heads, heels, poles, prostrations, "flip-flips" and somersaults.
When there was a partial restoration to mental and physical equipoise, and when they had become engaged, seemingly, in conference as to whether another shower of hard cash was to be expected and whether a madman or a veritable Carnegie had arrived in the foreign settlement, I manipulated my camera.
