When I first reached Hankow I supposed I was in the heart of the tea-growing region; but I soon learned I could not reach the nearest plantation without a tedious journey of a hundred miles; and that this journey must be made in a house-boat, through canals and inland lakes and rivers for eighty miles, and then, when I reached the mountains, the last part of the trip, some twenty miles, would have to be made in a sedan chair carried by coolies.
The worst feature of the adventure was the hostility of the people in the province through which the journey lay, for at this time the Boxer uprising was agitating the usual bitterness toward foreigners into frenzied aggressiveness.
But I decided to make the attempt, and a companion was deemed indispensable.
The American Vice-Consul found a fearless and adventurous young man, son of ex-Consul Childs, who was quite willing to accompany me for the sport of hunting on the way.
This young fellow was powerful and brave almost to recklessness, and, as he said, any half-dozen Boxers would only be “Child's" play for him.
We at once set to work to prepare for the trip; he furnished one double-barreled breech-loading shot-gun and a Martini-Henri rifle, with an abundance of ammunition; he also engaged from a friend of his, a Russian merchant, a suitable house-boat with sleeping accommodations; later I will show you the boat.
Next, we engaged a crew, consisting of a captain, four coolies, a cook and an interpreter.
We went to a native grocery and laid in a supply of provisions, such as we could get-chiefly canned goods and several dozen bottles of soda-water-we knew drinking-water would be difficult to find.
Mr. Childs said we must take a couple of bottles of whisky, because he was acquainted with a mandarin up the river who was fond of it, and that his favor was worth two bottles; I remonstrated that one bottle was enough for one mandarin.
"Yes," he replied, "but we may find another mandarin"; and so we did.
Our grocery supply cost fifteen dollars; it included several loaves of settlement bread.
Only "cash" is known in the rural districts; silver is worthless.
I gave our cook five Mexican dollars to be exchanged for "cash."
He returned with a back-load all strung on strings, about one dollar's worth on each, the five straps weighing thirty pounds; this is no exaggeration; because the spectacle of our cook returning with thirty pounds of coin hung over his shoulders and around his neck was so ludicrous that I weighed a one dollar strap, which was just six pounds.
A very brief and limited shopping expedition in a native town necessitates a coolie with a wheelbarrow to carry the change.
After much preparatory running back and forth, we sailed near eleven o'clock at night.
Our houseboat was fitted with sail, but, in the absence of wind, it must be towed by hand by means of long lines from the shore.
A light night breeze carried us across the river, where the coolies went ashore with the tow-line and towed through the night while we essayed to sleep in our new and confined quarters.
When we arose in the morning we found we had made little progress up the great river, Hankow being still plainly in sight; some time before noon we reached Kinkow, an important town on the Yang-tse only about twenty miles from our starting-place; here we entered a canal or creek which connects the Yang-tse with a small lake some twenty miles inland.
Now let us go ashore just for an opportunity to look at our house-boat.
