Things were a little uncomfortable when so little food could be bought, but when my last penny was gone a famine seemed near at hand.
I don't mind missing a few meals, but a fast of a few days makes unpleasant cavities about one's anatomy.
Fasting has an uncomfortable sensation, but it is more bearable than asking favors of the military, which I might have done.
I did, however, make a pretense of dropping in casually upon the cook of the U. S. Marines to ask him if he could spare a little rice.
He pointed to a small starch-box on the floor half filled with rice and clay and straw, saying at the same time, “That's good rice if you only wash it enough."
I carried it off quite thankfully, and, sure enough, when washed in five or six waters, it assumed a normal white, and I feasted several days upon this, seasoned with a pinch of salt.
One day during this period of scarcity, while on the street, I saw a potato drop from a passing commissary wagon.
This I seized, and following the wagon for a half-mile picked up in all seven potatoes and one onion.
With these I returned to my room in a mood of triumphant forage; 1 pared, sliced and boiled them together in a small tin pot on my spirit lamp.
I seasoned with salt and a small portion of rancid oleomargarine left in a tin which had been opened two months before.
That meal I shall never cease to regard as the acme of gastronomic pleasure.
People try many things for an appetizer, but seldom try fasting.
This veritable feast had predisposed me to potatoes, and on another occasion, having seen a quantity of fresh potato parings thrown out in a yard near a street, I decided to return after night-fall to secure them.
When night came on, taking a quantity of matches in my pocket to enable me to find the exact spot, I walked back one mile to obtain this tempting prize of potato parings; but on reaching the place a number of officers were seated near by and my pride defeated my plan to secure another feast, for I could not take them in the presence of the officers.
I returned bootless and retired to my hard bed with hunger unappeased.
This state of scarcity continued until one day an American soldier came to me, all his pockets sagging with syce (bars of silver), and asked me to buy.
I told him I had no money.
Seeing my watch and chain, he said, "What kind of a watch have you?"
I replied, "A good Elgin watch."
Without a moment's hesitation he offered his bars of silver for my watch.
The swap" was promptly consunimated, and I had one hundred and fifty dollars worth of silver bullion, that is, about twenty pounds.
This relieved the money market and in some measure the fast, for soon the natives began to return to the city and to the settlement.
After a while they commenced to bring in produce, which ended the famine.
About this time more American troops arrived, one company encamping in the compound about my room.
I formed many pleasant acquaintances among these men and officers; sometimes giving accommodation to them in my room, and in turn they would accompany me in my outings with the camera, rendering valuable assistance.
Through these generous-hearted boys I obtained many war-souvenirs and enjoyed many acts of courtesy; but we cannot go further into details.
