This meek and bland-looking old man who sits before you was at this time the talk of the world—would he be allowed to land at Tien-tsin?
Would he be reinstated?
Would he be authorized to negotiate terms of peace?
He seemed to be the only man who understood this great international difficulty.
He was allowed to land.
He occupied the Viceroy's Yamen across the river outside the walled city (see map northeast of walled city).
It was important to obtain a stereoscopic record of this distinguished personage.
Through the courtesy of an American doctor who desired a photograph of the ex-Viceroy and who had some acquaintance with Dr. Parks, his medical adviser, I visited the Yamen.
His Excellency being engaged with important matters of state, kindly consented to sit for us on the following day at a fixed hour.
At the hour appointed we were met by the genial Dr. Parks, who, as soon as I had chosen a well-lighted part of this court in the Yamen, had servants bring out this finely inlaid stand and the chair in which he sits.
When cameras were placed in position and everything in perfect readiness, his chair-bearers were notified and he was brought from his rooms in his official chair and assisted by his attendants to the chair in which you see him.
He greeted us with a pleasant smile and spoke to us freely through Dr. Parks as interpreter.
His natural simplicity and the entire absence of affected importance was quite fascinating; kingcraft is nearly extinct; the time when a sovereign could make his subject revere him as a demigod belongs to the past.
A truly great man has no occasion to pretend greatness; only those who are not great find it necessary to resort to affectation.
Neither Earl Li's great wealth nor his great attainments have in any degree left a trace of self-importance in his manner.
His left eye has a quizzical droop which seems to be the premonition of an ever-ready smile.
He personifies the simplicity and naturalness of a truly great mind.
He is vigorous in intellect, but somewhat feeble in his limbs; he is supported to and from his palanquin.
He is richly dressed in heavy brocaded satin.
In the front of his cap you see an ornament; it is a circle of pearls around a large ruby.
When I asked Dr. Parks if he could remove the cap of his Excellency for one stereograph, the doctor explained to him and removed the cap.
This caused Earl Li to smile as though he would have said: "What can they want with my bald pate?"
Even that fine blackwood table, inlaid with mother-of-pearl, upon which his arm rests, is worth noticing; this style of furniture is much used by the wealthy.
