You may get some idea of the character of the soil and the appearance of the country near the river.
The whole valley is alluvial, and in its fertility and freedom from stones reminds me of the valley of the Nile.
You can see the height of the banks, showing the depth of the soil, and the canal, which was originally a creek or river, is here quite deep, and this continues until we reach the high lands.
A typical craft from the interior, propelled by a large sculling oar on one side of the boat, is passing down on the other side; it is probably on its way down to Hangkow or other of the great near-by cities, with farm produce.
There is a house on the other side, but it is hidden by trees, so that we can see little of it.
But we must go aboard our house-boat and order our captain to start.
You may know by the glossy surface of the water that there is no breeze for our sails; therefore, the tow-line is thrown out, the gang-plank is hauled in and we move slowly on our way.
Our meek little cook had prepared for us a breakfast that would satisfy anyone but a man who has no business to travel; and now he was busy in the galley, which was, indeed, more a hole than a galley, preparing our second meal.
When it was on the table it quite astonished us, and while we ate we eulogized the cook and made, I fear, some unflattering remarks about French chefs.
In the afternoon we reached a beautiful lake some twenty miles across.
A light breeze, at times, enabled us to use our sail, and when the wind failed the coolies resorted to the cumbersome sculling oars.
We made the farther side of the lake a little after nightfall, where we entered a second canal, in which we tied up, our crew not being able to work continuously day and night.
On the following day, after we had been several hours in this canal, we entered a small fishing village where the banks of the canal were lined with villagers of both sexes in charge of "lift-nets."
This lift-net may be seen in every port of China; it consists of a horizontal net about twenty feet square, attached to a bamboo frame-work projecting over the water from the shore; it is lowered and raised from the shore, and each net requires one attendant; it is lowered until it sinks to the bottom, where it remains for a time, or until fish have assembled over it, when it is raised for a draught of them.
This was a novel and interesting scene and we ran our house-boat ashore, thinking to obtain a view of the villagers in their droll piscatory vocation.
We landed and returned along the bank near the line of nets.
I planted my camera in a suitable position, when, instantly, along the whole line, they left their nets and came pell-mell toward us and around us.
Our attempt was, of course, obstructed.
We called our "boy" (every servant is called a "boy in the East) to persuade them to stand away from the camera; his appeal had no effect; their curiosity increased and the crowd increased; they at once showed an unfriendly manner; one fellow landed from a boat and came strutting forward with an air of importance and authority and lifted the cloth of the camera to see what was under it.
I took it out of his hands and motioned him back; he straightened up, swelled his chest, compressed his lips and dove his head under the cloth; no self-respecting photographer can brook any liberties with his apparatus.
I squelched his officious and impertinent meddlesomeness with more vigor than politeness.
He swelled up in importance again, but kept two yards. off; his dignity was damaged; he looked vengeance and sneeringly cried out, "Fanqwei! fanqwei!"
There was no possibility of getting a picture, the crowd was rapidly increasing, and the half-mile line of nets was deserted.
Our boy said, "Very bad people here!"
We had not brought along our guns, and we concluded it would be better to be nearer our defenses.
We started for our boat; but no sooner had we emerged from the crowd than we were greeted by a volley of mud and lumps of CHINA THROUGH THE STEREOSCOope. clay (there were no stones).
We ducked and dodged all the way back.
Dodging missiles from Chinamen was a humiliation to which we had not been accustomed.
In a mood to even up honors, we brought our guns on deck and donned our cartridge belts; there was a silent but hurried retreat all along the line.
I gave Childs my gun to carry, took my camera, went on shore and we advanced to the place from which we had retreated: but like the clans of Culloden, "they were scattered in flight."
I took my view, but it sadly lacked life in the foreground.
This showed, as has been shown in a thousand other instances, that the Chinese lack the fighting instinct, or, in other words, that they are cowards; but sometimes will fight a little with ten to one.
We came off ahead, but it might have been otherwise, only for the alluvial soil which offered no stones.
Childs said, on our return, that he had heard of the "Battle of the Roses," but he had never anticipated a "Battle of Mud."
This was evidently an unfriendly village and we did not care to linger.
Certain villages are friendly and others unfriendly.
A village is often composed of a clan, or family line, where one disposition characterizes the whole village; here we had fallen in with an anti-foreign breed and as soon as we reached our boat, our order to the captain was: "Walkee, walkee, chop, chop!" (Start at once).

