This was the first village in which we had found the inhabitants friendly.
The chair-coolies got a feed of rice from the villagers, and we ate our lunch hemmed in by a staring group of onlookers, which was not altogether agreeable, because one is liable at any moment to be colonized by a drift of eleemosynary insects from leeward, and this prospect is somewhat de-appetizing.
Another plain of rice fields lay before us which involved unpleasant liabilities and greatly retarded our progress.
But we got across with a single catastrophe.
I heard, proceeding from Childs, who was behind me, great volumes of thrice-underscored English.
I looked back and saw one of his coolies submerged in the liquid soil, the other at the front, upon the ridge of clay.
The mud just reached the seat of the chair and my friend sat quite helpless, holding his gun out of the mud with one hand and projecting his feet upward.
The dilemma was only for a moment, as his loud and intensive language worked as an explosion of dynamite and brought the submerged coolie to the surface and, presto, to the path.
As usual, there was no damage except to the coolie's clothes, and that was not serious, as they consisted only of "onepiece shirt."
A great part of our journey by chair thus far had been across these rice fields, or "sloughs of despond," as Childs called them, but now we had reached the first mountain slope.
We rested a few minutes at a wayside inn, where our coolies regaled themselves with tea.
We found tea-stands every few miles.
In many places the tea stood at the door as a sort of a free-lunch trap for wayfarers; in other places it must be paid for at the rate of a cash" a cup.
The cups are small and five or six of them would scarcely equal in quantity an American "schooner "; besides tea, about the only drink to be obtained at these inns, is "sam shui," a sort of home-made wine.
Western whiskies and other civilized death-dealing and fiend-producing decoctions are unknown in these rural districts.
