We had now reached the foothills of the mountain region.
Twenty miles is a good ride in a carriage; it is a long journey in a sedan chair, in a rough mountain district, where there are no roads, where one has to pass many villages, through countless rice-fields on narrow mud dykes, along rocky declivities and up steep slopes.
Our chairs were of the rustic order, made of bamboo suspended on bamboo poles ten feet long.
The teetering sensation was not disagreeable; but there were other sensations.
All persons do not know that a rice-field is, at times, a pond of water, at other times a pool of mud.
These fields are separated by ridges of clay sometimes a foot, sometimes two feet above the mud or water.
To pass around the corners of the mud-fields, on narrow ridges, without being precipitated into the mud, was the most precarious part of our journey, and in this we did not quite succeed.
I would surely be charged with exaggeration should I attempt to say how many times our chair-coolies were pitched over the narrow dyke into the deep mire while attempting to turn the sharp angles, we ourselves only escaping a mudbath by clambering to the treacherous path till the coolies could be extricated.
During the afternoon we stopped in the outskirts of a village for lunch.
We were, of course, at once surrounded by curious villagers who showed no unfriendliness, but were greatly interested in our modern firearms, and Childs entertained them by bringing down birds from the highest treetops.
Only one incident occurred here worth relating, an incident which shows how tricky and unscrupulous the Chinese are in ways of extorting money.
An old woman hurried into our presence leading a child and affecting great distress of mind; a stream of blood was trickling over the child's face from a scalp wound.
She showed us the wound and, jabbering explanations, pointed to our guns, intimating we had shot her child.
My companion broke into a roar of laughter and showed how we had been shooting altogether in an opposite direction and away from the village in which she lived.
The natives about us saw the shooting and also laughed at the woman's stupid and futile scheme to obtain money.
The trifling scalp wound was maternally inflicted and her plan proved a bungling and unsuccessful bit of blackmail.
