During the afternoon we came to a point where the canal expanded into a marsh and lake.
At one side of this marshy plain, a large town was located on a hillside, extending down to the edge of the water.
We saw banners flying and a great assemblage of people covering the side of the slope, and decorated boats seemed to fill the broad stream before the town.
Our boy explained that it was the day of the dragon festival.
This is one of the most important fête days in China.
It is not a good day to be in a Chinese crowd in a remote and hostile province; but we thought we would experience no difficulty in making our way past the town in our boat.
Boat-racing is an important feature of the day; several boats curiously decorated and filled with men rowing with short paddles, dashed back and forth before the town.
While these picturesque race-boats were passing and repassing, I stood on the bow of our little boat attempting to catch views as we moved through among them.
This seemed to attract the attention of the great crowds on the shore, who commenced to set up a derisive yell, which is quite peculiar and as distinguishable as the Indian's war-whoop.
A Chinese crowd, like any other crowd, is always more inflammable and aggressive on a holiday, and a vast assemblage greatly augments individual courage, especially among Chinamen.
We halted for a while to witness the strange proceedings; the jeers increased; then came a shower of mud; next a volley of stones; several waded into the water up to their waists around our boat; another volley of stones nearly demolished our cabin window.
At this we jumped into our little cabin and brought out our guns and slipped in cartridges; with this threat those in the water moved back a little; the jeers increased, and a hundred voices were shouting, Fanqwei! fanqwei!" and punctuating their raillery with stones.
We ordered our captain to move on; our crew at this point were all on board and propelling the boat with the sculls.
The missiles came so furiously at one time, that Childs leveled his gun, when I called to him not to shoot.
Fortunately, at this point, we were thirty or forty paces from the shore on which the enraged mob stood, while the number in the water near us, on the opposite side, were held back only by our guns; our coolies were as glad as we to get away from this ugly and cowardly band.
We ducked stones and urged on the coolies.
The mob followed for a half-mile along the shore, shouting, no doubt, all manner of ribaldry, but foreign devil was all we could understand.
We soon entered a small lake where they could no longer follow, but until we were out of sight we could hear their peculiar yell of derision.
