We are looking slightly south of east toward the rocky, barren hills which encircle the bay at some distance.
The harbor is to the north, that is, to our right.
Those hills extend on the left to the sea and terminate in a promontory on which is located one of the forts mentioned.
Several Europeans have their homes at the foot of those hills; you can faintly distinguish one near the center of our field of vision a trifle to the right.
The family from that home I found quartered at one of the hotels.
Fearing an attack from the Boxers, they gathered a few more valuable articles and hastened to the security of the settlement, leaving their home in the care of native servants.
The Foreign Concession includes all that flat land lying near the water, and the French Consulate lies midway between the little English church near the beach and the farthest limit of our vision.
The first building on this side of the small church, with shrubbery in front, is a hotel; a second hotel stands next to the one just designated and on the opposite side of a narrow street leading out to the beach between them.
The nearer building with four windows in a line toward us is the Club House, before which on the beach several modern row-boats are drawn out.
And notice those sampans beyond; I will soon tell you how suddenly those were requisitioned.
The English Consulate is below at our left; the American and German behind us.
We are here looking southeast, and Taku is toward the northwest, and nearly half-way between us and Taku, at the time I was here, lay the U. S. battleship "Oregon" fast upon the rocks.
You see the English flag on the yard of the signal-staff; this, with the one black ball, indicates the movement of an English ship, probably the arrival or departure of a warship.
Those hotels were filled with missionaries and other refugees; bedding, boxes and bundles filled the courts of the hotels; some had come from stations in the interior, some from Tien-tsin, others from Pekin by the last train before the railway was destroyed.
They were all fleeing to places of safety.
some were awaiting a ship for Chemulpo in Corea, some were bound for Japan, others for Shanghai and ports southward, and many for their homes in Europe and America.
There were all kinds and orders of men, women and children; there were arrivals and departures of refugees daily and hourly; the Consuls were busy, each looking after his own people.
The American Consul had chartered a ship and sent it to bring some seventyfive missionaries from a remote station.
Let us go down and see them land.
