On the map we find the six red lines which mark the limits of our vision in these three views starting from the eastern side of the English Concession, one block from the river, and branching toward the west and northwest.
Note now the second and fifth lines from the bottom, each having the number 52 at its end.
We are to look first over the territory between those two lines.
Before we take this position, however, we should get in mind the positions of the Chinese troops, the Allied forces and the general plan of operations.
For several weeks the Boxer and Imperial troops, located mainly within the walled Native City, have been shelling most of the territory included within the Foreign Concessions.
Again and again the Chinese had made sharp attacks upon the Allied troops, especially in their efforts to gain control of the railroad station.
All their efforts met with repulse, but many lives were lost on both sides.
Guns from the ships of the Allies had been placed at different points commanding the enemy in the Native City.
Most of them were along the earth wall on the south side of the British Concession.
For several days hundreds of shells had been hurled into the walled city and the smoke from burning buildings showed the effectiveness of their work.
One particular point upon which the guns had been trained was the South Gate, in the center of the south wall of the Native City, as we find by the map.
And now, on the day we are to look over this field, the Allies had arranged for a concerted attack.
The Russians and Austrians were to approach the Native City from the east, but the others were to advance from the south.
Four days before, Monday, July 9, a force of Japanese, Russian and British soldiers had captured the West Arsenal, see on the map about a mile south of the Native City, near the earth wall.
The way was thus open for a much nearer approach from the south.
On the morning of the 13th the Allies had advanced to positions from one-quarter to one-half a mile from the southern wall.
The American Marines were on the extreme left near the southwest corner of the walled city; next, on the right, were the Welsh Fusiliers; then come the Japanese deployed on either side of the road to the South Gate, then the British Marines, and farthest to the right, near the river, the Eighth United States Infantry.
