This street, a little beyond the farthest point in sight, was crossed by a breastwork composed of bags of rice; just before us it was defended by the ancient cheval-defrise.
Those low buildings on the right were pierced by several shells.
They are cooking-houses and sleepingplaces for the servants of well-to-do English families living in adjoining houses facing on a street called Victoria Terrace; but the occupants had fled, leaving the houses in care of a gentleman, who gave me permission to occupy one of the them.
Before this time I had taken shelter, as before stated, in a vacated room of a Chinese home, but after three nights my room was claimed by officers of the United States Marines, when I removed to one of those houses opposite us.
Here I lodged for two nights, when I was again compelled to give up my extemporized dormitory on a sofa to other officers.
The Ninth United States Infantry had arrived from the Philippines and every available house was commandeered.
One of the shells which passed through that wall by the trees, on the right-hand side of this street, exploded in passing through the wall and the fragments entered the room I occupied and lodged in the back of a fine piano; but each night I took the precaution to haul the sofa on which I slept behind some interior wall.
These houses were of brick, and one wall of brick was sufficient to explode a shell and a second would stop the fragments; but those failing to explode would pass through several brick walls.
The bombardment was intermittent; sometimes for a half-day scarcely a shot would be fired; then it would be resumed again, possibly at midnight, or at some hour in the night.
When awakened by the explosion of a shell further sleep was impossible.
The few people left in the settlement were worn out by broken sleep and apprehension.
Those not experienced in conditions of war, and especially of bombardment, cannot possibly imagine the startling effect of bursting shells.
During one afternoon, when firing was unusually severe, three shells struck within the same number of minutes; one tearing through the walls of the City Hall and two others bursting within the barracks of the United States Marines, but doing little damage.
A little later, on the same afternoon, a shell entered the quarters of the British Marines, adjacent to the United States Marines, killing one and wounding two.
