100. Ministers of Foreign Powers during Negotiations with China-leaving Spanish Legation after a sitting-Pekin.
We have just entered the Spanish Legation from Legation Street, a little east of the English Legation. The ten foreign ministers are emerging from the assembly-room at the end of a morning session and find themselves confronted by two cameras. Major Conger who seemed to enjoy an esteemed seniority among the ministers and with whom a previous arrangement had been made for this stereograph, addressed them somewhat as follows:
"Gentlemen, we are besieged again! This time, however, by a gentleman from New York who represents a house that does magnificent photographic work, and if you will halt for a moment he will possibly send us each a fine photograph; now, how shall we stand, Mr. Photographer?" "As you like," was the reply, "except, do not try to look pretty"; when some member in sotto voce jocularly rejoined: "We have enough on hand without undertaking greater tasks."
Thus in a few moments this scene was snatched by the sun-ray and registered for the future centuries among the annals of history. The different members of this tribunal of the nations may be identified as follows:
Of those standing on the lowest step, Major E. H. Conger (U. S. A.) is to the left, Don B. J. de Cologan (Spain) is in the center and Dr. Von Mumm (Germany) is to the right. Of the two standing on the second step, M. De Giers (Russia) is on the left next to Minister Conger and Baron M. C. De Wallton (Austria-Hungary) is on the right. On the next step back Marquis J. Saloago Reggi (Italy) is to the left, directly behind Minister Conger. Then comes Baron Missi (Japan) and M. N. Joostens (Belgium). In the doorway Baron d'A. de Wasserwass (France) is on the left and Sir E. Satow, the newly appointed British Minister, is on the right.
The task of this diplomatic corps has been very great, very difficult and protracted. It is impossible for people not versed in diplomacy to comprehend the endless number of subtle and perplexing matters that have demanded its careful deliberations, and the whole civilized world is its censor. Of course these men are but intermediaries between their respective governments and the Chinese Empire, yet their duties are complex. Most of them endured the privations and suspense of the siege, yet a year's struggle with perplexing problems awaited them. Diplomacy has been slow to learn that in dealing with the Chinese Government confidence is never safe; the Boxer uprising is not the first. Treaties have been often made,
but seldom honored, and now all the world wonders what will be the outcome of this last insurrection. Will China modernize and assimilate, or will she compromise in order to gain time only to make greater preparation to debar the Caucasian of the West, as she walled out the Tartar from the North? Time holds the secrets of the future, and for the issues of this great international settlement made by these ministers, we must wait.
In taking leave of these men we also conclude our itinerary in China. We have passed from Canton at the south to the devastated capital at the north. We have witnessed in our wanderings the wretchedness of hopeless poverty and suffering, and the stupid and demoralizing luxuries of wealth; we have seen the "King of Beggars and the Princes of the Empire; we have seen the poor, burden-bearing coolie whose labor feeds the luxurious mandarin; we have seen the Tankia in their little floating homes and the many palaces of sovereignty. We have been stoned by the superstitious rustics among the mountains; we have "chowed" with mandarins. We have looked upon the bloody and harrowing circumstances of war, and as we are about to make our leave-taking obeisance before this ancient contemporary of Egypt and Babylon, we cannot but wonder what is to become of her. She is weak by reason of her unpreparedness for defense, and the vultures of Western commercialism are "watching out." Even now she has ceased to be a sovereign power when the allied nations can dictate enormous indemnities and the demolition of her coast defenses and the regulation of her own internal affairs. China has international obligations to perform; none will consider her blameless; yet the various nations need to be very careful that they do not come to play the part of vigorous young bullies mauling a feeble and helpless centenarian.