27. Colossal Statues of Buddha in Fuchoo Temple, Ningpo.
I have already told you something about Buddha and the philosophy which he taught. We saw statues in the temple of the Five Hundred Genii at Canton, dedicated to the memory of distinguished followers of that great philosopher; and here we have before us great statues of Buddha himself. Probably no person ever lived who has had so great a number of statues erected to his memory. You know how widespread are his teachings, and memorial statues are as universal as his teachings. These immense figures are carved out of wood according to the conventional model of Buddhas the world over, i.e., in the sitting posture with legs crossed somewhat after the manner of the sartorial artist of earlier days, with eyebrows thinly trimmed down and with looped pendent ear lobes. It is said that "Humility is the mark of every master mind." Observe how, in his downcast gaze, the conception of humility has been wrought out as a proper attribute of the real philosopher; at the same time there is the expression of repose as one who has mastered all the ills of life and attained Nirvana. The world of Buddhism is full of these statues of all sizes and of all materials. There is one in Japan visited by many travellers. It is made of bronze, and, although in a sitting posture, is forty-four feet in height. I have seen some wonderful monolithic statues of Buddha in Ceylon cut from prodigious granite bowlders and standing erect forty feet in height; also some of about an equal length lying prostrate in the rock temples at Dambulla, not far from the same place. Even in this temple you may see the ubiquitous dragon wriggling in that ornate background of the statue.
We must now make our obeisance, and leaving the presence of this august image of the great Indian philosopher, zigzag our way through teeming multitudes to our ship. Returning again to Shanghai, we enter the vehicle which I likened to the "One-Hoss Shay," and passing around the native city enter the compound of the South Gate Presbyterian School, where we will find a charming group of native schoolgirls under the care of Miss Cogdal and receiving instruction in embroidery.