18. Rich Native Bazaars on Nankin Road, Principal Chinese Street in the English Settlement, Shanghai.
Here we are looking nearly eastward and toward the Bund in a street which, although filled with Chinamen and lined with Chinese shops, is plainly not in a typical Chinese city; the streets are broad, well macadamized and clean, very unlike the narrow, filthy lanes seen in any really Chinese city. The sidewalks are broad and well flagged; those poles and wires again give a Western aspect. Those chimneys in the distance to the right plainly tell that we have not gone far into the native quarter to gain a glimpse of the Chinese portion of the settlement; yet it shows again how, aligned side by side, the East and the West are slow to assimilate.
There is one feature, however, about this street which gives more evidence of assimilation; it leads out to the most fashionable suburbs and to the race-course, and on Sundays and during the cool afternoon hours of weekdays it is filled with stylish modern vehicles, many of which are occupied and owned by wealthy Chinese, including the "upper-ten-dom" of Chinese ladies, elegantly attired, richly bejeweled and coiffured and painted. That these Chinese drive out in European carriages, that they attend the races, are among the hopeful signs that there is a trifling infiltration of occidentalism.
Here, again, is the "rikisha," showing its inward construction and suggesting a stunted survival of the "Onehoss Shay." Standing nearest us is one of England's Indian soldiers who aspires to live in art as a man of letters and has probably succeeded beyond his hopes when he halts for a moment before the camera. Notice his costume, his khaki suit, his curious cap, his heavy shoes, and especially his leggings; they are such as are worn by all his Majesty's native troops in India, not buttoned nor laced at the side, but consisting of a continuous piece of cloth wrapped from the foot upward to the knee and fastened. Many English officers and men have adopted this style of legging. A noteworthy physical feature of nearly all East Indian types is a deficiency of calves; but that cannot be regarded as an intellectual disparagement if it be true according to anthropologists that all human development is headwards; it is quite easy to believe on general principles that the less calf the more brain. Notwithstanding this headward development theory, I am rather suspicious of the literary attainments of this Hindoo, as real scholars are not always fond of disporting literature.
It is quite plain that here, as usual, the people are watching the operator; but the picture-making process is not altogether strange to them. There are at least five or six well-equipped photographic galleries in this street, all belonging to Chinamen and well supplied with the latest appurtenances of the art.
We will pass along this street and obtain a view of a typical China tea-house.