94. Wan-Shou-Shan (Hill of Ten Thousand Ages) Summer Palace of the Empress, from Island in Lake Kun-Ming-Hu, near Pekin.
This Imperial retreat is called Wan-Shou-Shan, which signifies Hill of Ten Thousand Ages, and has been used as the summer residence of the Empress since the destruction of the original Summer Palace at Yuen-Ming-Yuen, which lies a mile to the north of this place. Yuen-MingYuen was destroyed by a former invasion of "Allies" in 1860. Before its destruction it was a magnificent place four and one-half miles in circumference, covered with all sorts of beautiful and luxurious structures. Since its demolition by the Allies in 1860 it has only partially been restored and Wan-Shou-Shan continues to be the Summer Palace. From this point you are able to look across the small lake from an island near the south shore. You know that the Palace in Pekin was a city of itself, a Forbidden City, rather than one palatial structure. We find the same here-almost a small city forming an amphitheater on the southern slope of the hill and around the western shore of the lake. Our field of vision includes enly a section of the numerous buildings that extend for nearly a half mile along the shore of the lake. The slope of the hill and the edge of the lake is covered with trees and studded with villas and arcades. Off to the right, but not within our range of vision are landing stages, near which are moored row-boats, sail-boats and two small steam yachts, all toys of the Empress. The most conspicuous object before us on the opposite side of the lake is a gigantic structure or terrace built of solid masonry, and ascended on either side by stone stairways, which are shown on that perpendicular wall by the dark lines. The terrace is surmounted by a huge tower, temple or pagoda. It has been called a temple, but I could find no one on the grounds who knew its purpose. I would naturally consider it an Imperial out-look tower. It is covered with glazed yellow tile and can be seen sparkling in the sun at a great distance. Later, before leaving the Summer Palace, we shall pass around the lake and ascend the hill to the left of that tower near the wall. We shall stand just before that bush by the wall, on a line with the tower where we can obtain a near view.
There is a pretty pavilion at our right hand, and the massive rail before us surrounds it. The pavilion is of white marble ornamented with peculiar designs, chief of which is, of course, the dragon. Beyond the rail rising from the edge of the water is an artificial rockery, in the construction of which the Chinese show unusual skill.
When I started for the Summer Palace in the conveyance afore mentioned and found I could not sustain the shock of a Pekinese cart, I picked up on the street two coolies to carry my outfit; they are here before us, one on the rockery and one on the rail. One of these fellows was unequal to the walk of twenty-six miles and gave out on the return when we were within two miles of my quarters. It was after ten o'clock, on a dark night, before we got within the city walls. The one coolie who was entirely exhausted lagged behind, and in the darkness turned into a side alley with the evident intention of secreting himself and retaining my valuable apparatus. When he seemed to be suspiciously far behind I ran back to the end of the by-way up which I knew he must have gone, and, hearing a slight noise in that direction, I dashed on in the darkness and overtook him just as he was entering a small native house. I collared him, brought him. into the alley, took my apparatus and left him there. He never afterwards appeared to claim his day's hire.
To reach the mainland from this pretty islet we cross a beautiful bridge at which we will also stop for a moment.