11. West End of Shameen, an Artificial Island which Comprises the European Colony of Canton.
Here we are looking slightly north of west, toward the west end of an artificial island, built up of sand and called Shameen (sand). This island extends east and west, parallel with the mainland, from which it is separated by a narrow canal. It is about half a mile long, comprises the European Settlement, and is connected with the native city by two bridges. It is a beautiful place, as we shall discover when we go ashore by those trees along the wall. Among the trees yonder you can see the west end of a row of European houses that extends the full length of the ísland; many of them are much more imposing than those we see; some are four stories in height and surrounded by fine shrubbery and flower-gardens. In this line of buildings are all the consulates, where Li Hung Chang occasionally called during his official term in Canton. I witnessed one of these formal calls; it was marked by what we would look upon as semi-barbaric pomp; Earl Li was carried in his state-chair, followed by a motley retinue of soldiers, musicians, standard-bearers and a few horsemen on miserable and ill-caparisoned ponies. The whole proceeding seemed somewhat ludicrous and childish.
Again we see the conspicuous pawnshop looming above the other buildings, as we did when we looked over the city from the flower-boats. You may see by the Bund at the end of the row of trees a low building, on piles; it is a boathouse, in which the Europeans keep their pleasure boats. In all the Orient Europeans indulge in their home sports and pastimes; they have the race-course, the boat club, the tennis court, etc. In that building you will find the most up-to-date row-boats and the long, slender racing shells. Lying between us and the shore is another assemblage of house-boats; and here we obtain a better view of their appearance. They are short and broad, and the occupants are sheltered by a thatch of palm-leaves. At first glance one might think these boat people meant to tell us they were not the river pirates, which are so troublesome on some parts of the river. I am sure I have seen, during the war, both in the Philippines and in China, less dignified truce emblems than those we see here, displayed by humble non-combatants craving protection of the enemy. You will observe here, again, to use a Celticism, that most of the boats are manned by women. In the small sampan one woman sculls and another rows with a single oar, while a third, sheltered by a prodigious bamboo hat, carries a child on her back, supported in the usual way by a strong cloth, which leaves the mother's hands free for manual work of any kind. These boats are all called sampans when used for carrying passengers, and whenever a European approaches that walk by the shore a number of them will at once dart toward him, vociferating: "Want sampan?" "Have sampan?" in good English; but one soon learns on entering a boat that these syncopated sentences constitute their whole stock of our language.
Before leaving this place I will direct your attention to only one other feature; it is the color and character of the water in the Pearl River. In physiography, considerable importance is always attached to the character of the water in great rivers, whether clear or turbid; whether wholesome for drinking and cooking purposes or whether malarious (whatever that may mean) and fever-producing. I have among my collection of objects from foreign countries, bottles of water from the Jordan River, the Dead Sea, the Nile, the Amazon and the Yang-tse-Kiang.
These samples, when shaken up, show the amount of turbidity, and when allowed to settle the relative amount of sediment in those bodies of water. Rivers often take their name from the appearance of their water, as the Hoang Ho (or Yellow River) from the pronounced yellow color of its water; Missouri (Mud River) from its muddy aspect; but you will feel sure that the river before us is not named Pearl River after the pearly aspect of its waters, for you can distinctly see the yellowish muddy appearance and how the reflections are diminished thereby; yet it does not seem to be unwholesome, and is much used both for cooking and drinking.
We will call that little sampan and be landed about two hundred yards to the right of what we see here, on the wall beneath that row of beautiful trees, and look back toward the river to Hongkong again. Our position is given on the map by the lines marked 12.