57. Columbia's Noble Soldier Boys-As Kind-hearted as Brave-American Giving Water to Wounded Japanese after the Battle of Tien-tsin.
But we will not turn to see a row of two hundred dead lying a little behind where we are standing; we will only glance at a scene among the wounded and hurry on to the burning city. You here obtain a near view of the mudwall so often mentioned. And nearest to us you see a fatally-wounded Japanese soldier and the tender-hearted American boy bestowing the only blessing in his powersome water to allay the feverish thirst of his mortal agony. The American soldiers have a kindly feeling toward the Japanese. The average American admires pluck; the little Japanese is an ideal embodiment of suaviter in modo, fortiter in re; our boys recognize this and make pets of the manly little fellows. I have frequently seen an American and a Japanese walking arm in arm when neither could understand a word spoken by the other. The little chaps from "The Land of the Rising Sun" reciprocate. It has frequently been a great convenience to me, in passing a Japanese guard, that I had only to call out "American," when the cordial recognition, "All right," in quaint English, was quickly given. They are so gentle and yet so brave, possessing in a marked degree those companion virtues. A boat-load of Japanese has just left this place for the hospitals in the settlement. You see the portions of tents from which they have been removed, but you can scarcely see the blood stains. Photography is merciful and does not portray the blood-smeared garments and the blood clots on the ground where the wounded have lain over night. There is a dying soldier on the left and a wounded English or American soldier beyond him, under the cover. Two Japanese doctors are seen here dressing wounds.
From here you catch a glimpse of the canal I have previously mentioned, and along which many of the wounded were carried. You can also discern buildings of the settlement, two miles away, on the Pei-ho. We are looking east, as the red lines connected with the number 57 on the map show.
A few rods back from where we stand, we will ascend the mud-wall and look toward the Native City and the South Gate (see map).