10. Examination Hall-Rows of Twelve Thousand Cells, where the Ku-Yan Triennial Examinations are held, Canton.
You will scarcely think it possible that those low, shedlike structures, hardly more imposing in appearance than the cattle-pens in some city stockyards, are the halls in which applicants for examination for degrees that nearly correspond with our college degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts are held. Yes, once in three years learned examiners come from Pekin to test here the literary merit of those who aim to fill government offices or to obtain honorary degrees. The government of China has encouraged the higher education of the few by dispensing state offices and honors only to scholars, and the distribution is based on this system of elaborate examinations. As far as it goes it is an equitable system of civil service; for the poorest may rise to the highest rank next to the Emperor. China is the only country in the world in which titles of honor for learning are higher and more lucrative than those conferred on military officials. The greatest general is outranked by a Doctor of Laws. The preparation for these triennial examinations is very unlike our preparation for a degree in college; it consists largely in a cramming with obsolete Confucian classics. The applicant most likely to secure a degree is the one who has memorized and can best quote the four sacred books and the five classics of Confucius. Four degrees are conferred. Examinations for the first degree are held in provincial towns throughout the Empire; for the second, in each capital of the eighteen provinces. Those for the third are held in Pekin; the final examination gives the successful candidate a membership in the Imperial Academy. Every male, without respect to age or position, is eligible, and should a degree be obtained, even though no government appointment be the result, the possessor is not only honored in his community, but enjoys an immunity from the baser penalties of the law, such as bamboo flagellations, which are inflicted for many trivial offenses. The examinations are very rigorous and often only a very small number out of the thousands of applicants carry away the honors of a degree.
Women are not eligible in these examinations; indeed, they can hardly be considered eligible to any education whatever, as immemorial usage has placed them on a lamentable plane of inferiority, as is exemplified by the prevalence of female infanticide.
The grounds of this Examination Hall cover about twenty acres and contain accommodation for twelve thousand competitors. We entered through a gate at the farther end of this causeway, and we are now standing on the upper floor of a building which contains apartments for two chiefs and ten junior examiners; also for the Viceroy and the Governor of the Province, whose presence is required during the examinations. The examiners who are sent from Pekin are received with every mark of honor and ceremony. We are here looking southeast over one portion of the ground covered by the examination cells or pens. You will notice the low, narrow brick structures with half-roofs sloping toward the entrance side, with a narrow alley or lane between them; these long, shed-like buildings are partitioned off into spaces five feet six inches deep, three feet eight inches broad and six feet high. Each cell, when occupied, is securely closed in front by a strong wooden grating. In these solid brick quarters the candidate is confined for two whole days and nights, during which time he is to complete his essay or poem. From a tower built for the purpose, a close watch is maintained over the whole area, and the utmost precaution is taken to prevent students from smuggling into their cells any available item of literature. These buildings and the whole surroundings have a cheerless and dilapidated aspect which we can hardly discern here. You will notice, on the end of each range of cells, characters designating the number of the range and the cells included. You can see also the source of the water supply for the twelve thousand feverish and anxious competitors that are locked in those close, hot cells for two days and two nights; I mean the cisterns with stone curbs that extend along the space between the causeway and the buildings. I need not tell you that the two Oriental specimens below us, with bare heads and poorly shod feet and stiffly akimboed arms are not defeated candidates for literary honors; they are but common coolies who, as you can readily see, impose on art when they pose for "cash." I wonder if you have noticed while looking upon this scene that trees are deciduous about Canton? This becomes an interesting fact when I remind you that we are here just within the tropics, Canton being only a few miles below the Tropic of Cancer, and that frost seldom occurs here. The last snowfall, about seventy years ago, threw the inhabitants into superstitious consternation.
We will depart from this place where the Literati are made, return to the busy river life, engage a sampan, which will take us out into the stream, where we board a large coasting steamer at anchor a short distance off the European Settlement.
Our position and field of vision are given by the lines connected with the number II on the lower left-hand corner of the Canton map.