62. Old Tien-tsin, showing Terrible Destruction caused by Bombardment and Fire-Tien-tsin.
There is a sadness about a deserted home; there is a greater sadness about a deserted city or village. Before us lies a great city, not only deserted, but sacked, looted, and in ashes, by Christian armies. Only a few days before this stereograph was made this street and the surrounding houses were a holocaust of human life. A day later that long thoroughfare was a slow-moving line of homeless, weeping human beings-their homes in ashes, without food, friendless, and, in many cases, their kindred left charred in the ruins of their homes. This is not of the imagination; all that I mention I saw. There were mothers with babes; there were aged men and women supported by younger members of the family; there were wounded borne on wheelbarrows, when it was their fortune to have friends; otherwise, they were left to die. I saw one poor fellow, whose leg had been shattered by a bullet, painfully hitching himself along by inches, dragging the broken limb, while the bone protruded from the wound. At the same time, this street was strewn with corpses; those of persons asphyxiated by the fatal gases of the lyddite shells could easily be distinguished by the yellow discoloration of the skin. Lily-feet, which were so expensive at Shanghai, were here the appendages of inangled corpses that had no more consideration than the carcasses of dogs, which also lined the streets; but the camera cannot portray nor the pen describe those heartrending scenes along this narrow street after the battle.
Now it is a pathetic scene of desolation. The homeless, starving multitudes have fled. You see two coolies with wheelbarrows; these have been allowed to pass the guards to gather up scraps of worthless iron, or something of no value from the ruins. You see also a woman who has been allowed to pass within the gates; we can only conjecture her mission; it is, doubtless, an urgent one, may be, to search for valuable property or missing friends. Nothing less would tempt her to return at this time. Besides being a sad picture of a pillaged and deserted city, you can see the character of its architecture; its situation on a level plain; its low one-story brick buildings and narrow streets, this being one of the principal thoroughfares. You see the gate and tower beyond. Such gates and towers usually denote the intersection of important streets.
This street is the boundary between the American and French sections of the city. The transverse street, at the tower, is the northern limit of these districts.
We saw on the city wall two dead Boxers; you may wish to witness a closer view of live specimens, and I think I promised you such a privilege on our way to the north. We will therefore leave the Native City and return to the European settlement, where we shall be able to see about fifty.