66. Reverent but Prejudicial Ancestor Worship-One of China's Immense Cemeteries, which seriously Lessen Her Productive Land Area.
This is not exactly a potter's field; it is the burial place of the common people. We do not see here the graves of the better class, for they often have private graveyards within their own domain. These are humble graves, simple mounds covering heavy wooden coffins. They are sacredly preserved; they have been located by geomancy and that has first right, and land tenure second. Suppose we allow a square rod for two graves and that only four hundred million burials occur every fifty years; that would diminish the production area one and one-half million acres every half century. Can we wonder then that there is so much complaint because inviolable sepulture encroaches so heavily upon productive lands. Wherever possible, barren slopes and unproductive places are set apart for cemeteries, but this is frequently not practicable. Mortuary buildings are erected in which the wealthy place their dead, at least, temporarily. Near Tien-tsin I saw buildings inclosed by brick walls in which many coffins stood above ground quite exposed. These coffins had been burst open and rifled by some of the foreign soldiers. The bodies were tumbled out to be stripped of their jewels and trinkets; they were robed in their best apparel and well preserved, as though partially mummified. It is known that they are buried with some of their precious belongings, and this tempted the greed of some of the unprincipled soldiery. The coffins are made of plank three and four inches thick, carefully sealed. In the bottom is placed a quantity of quicklime; the body is swathed in a great amount of cotton, and only a slight odor escaped from these newly-opened coffins. The dead are kept at least forty-nine days before interment; this is to give the geomancers ample time to locate a lucky burial site. Coffins are often secured irrespective of any imminent prospects of death; indeed, they are always regarded as a very handsome and appropriate birthday gift. Funeral customs in China are so numerous and strange that chapters might be devoted to an account of them; one consists in scattering paper money (small tin-foil imitations of syce) along the road as the funeral procession advances, in order to appease the cupidity of straggling ghosts that may haunt the way. We see no tablets nor monuments to mark these last resting-places of the dead. The approaches to the tombs of nobles, as we observed at Nankin, are often marked by rows of stone figures.
You see in the distance what appears to be a small pagoda, and beyond a small tower; they both might be called towers of silence; but they are really baby-towers; that is, they are towers in which babes are buried, or rather pitched. All babes under one year of age at death are wrapped in cloths, bound around with strings, and thrown into these towers. It may even be suspected that these baby-towers may be the bourne of many girl-babes before death; you know girl infanticide is not uncommon, and here is facile modus. In illustration of how prevalent is the destruction of girl-babes, one writer tells about seeing the following notice posted at the edge of a pond: Girls may not be drowned here."
There is a shepherd here among the graves with his little flock; very little mutton is eaten in China, so it is quite probable that these mutton-subjects are kept for their wool.
Only fifty yards to the left of where we stand I witnessed a spectacle I will not soon forget, a scene too shocking to be shown to the world indiscriminately. It was the shooting of two Chinamen by the French and the beheading of two others by the Japanese; the former were convicted of stealing, the latter of being Boxers. The former were bound to posts and shot; the latter were made to stand among these graves while a shallow pit was dug in their presence, beside one of these mounds; this shallow muddy hole was to be the one grave for the two convicts. They were made to kneel on the mound looking down into the grave prepared for them, so that when the fatal blow was struck they would fall therein. Only a few of us had learned the hour of execution and were present, among us an American doctor who, when this grave was being dug and the two poor fellows stood near by, held the hand of one, feeling his pulse. Some one queries: "Normal, doctor?” “One hundred and twentysix," replied the physician; and yet the doomed man showed no outward mental disturbance. Another, speaking his language, asked him if he was a Boxer, to which he replied meekly and with mysterious resignation, "I am no Boxer; all the village people hereabouts know me." I was told afterward that this sympathetic medical man, who was not unfamiliar with blood, was so disturbed by this heartless butchery that he was disqualified for duty for several days. I will not describe this spectacle in detail for the same reason that I do not present a view of it. It is too grewsome for presentation in a popular series; yet those who would fully realize the cruelties and barbarities of war should know and see; the view may be had of the publishers.
The most famous man in China, the ablest statesman in Asia, the second richest man in the world and one of the most widely known characters in history, reached Tientsin later during my sojourn in China. I refer to Li Hung Chang. His journey from Canton to the north was heralded over the world. The great intermediary between the throne of China and the foreigner, so often degraded and then reinstated, passed from south to north like a sidereal luminary that had wandered from its path, but was again to be restored to its true place in the heavens, or as peacemaker to the Imperial Court.