93. Miss Smith, a Heroine of the Siege, and Protected Refugees, among the Ruins of the London Mission Schools, Pekin.
We are in the presence of a host of homeless human beings all depending for food and shelter upon the noble little woman seated near the front with a child by her side. There are men and women, young and old. All these were sheltered and fed within the English Legation during two of the longest months which any of them have ever experienced. All within the Legation were saved; but all were not within that nobly defended fortress. Many friends and kin of these poor people were not so fortunate, but were mercilessly slain by the bloodthirsty Boxers.
When Miss Smith, at my request, seated herself in front of her flock I asked her to have a native child stand by her side; not wishing to give the appearance of any partiality in such a choice, she asked me to choose one. From the first line where you see the children I brought the child that now stands at her side. "Why, how strange," exclaims Miss Smith, "that you have brought to me this poor little thing that is the object of my tenderest love and sympathy! Do you know," she continued, “ that both the father and mother of this little one were not only killed, but were dismembered and horribly chopped to pieces; her parents are gone, and all her friends are gone; there is no one left to look after her, and she is very dear to me." These are the tender motherly words of the woman, who, when the shells were crashing into the Legation, was as brave as she was loving after the Allies had brought safety-another evidence to prove, if proof were necessary, that tenderest hearts are bravest.
The women and children are assembled here on the ruins of the burned church; the men stand by themselves farther away. The burned school buildings are beyond the men. Can you see among the group of women some of the Chinese and Manchu women we have already seen? These Christian converts seemed to be deeply grateful toward Miss Smith. There stood in the court in which we saw the Chinese and Manchurian women, five silk umbrellas which they and their friends had presented to her as evidences of their gratitude, for, as previously explained, the umbrella is the usual object given in token of especial regard. We might say that, as a present, the umbrella is the "loving cup" of China.
In this same court where these honorary umbrellas stood and where were the groups of Chinese and Manchu ladies, I met Prince Su, whose palace and property were turned over to the beleaguered Legationers; he had proved from the beginning a friend to all the foreigners, and was on the best of terms with the people of the London Mission. He is a man of fine appearance and seems to delight in mingling with foreigners. He quite readily granted me a sitting for a stereoscopic photograph, and presented me with his card, explaining at the same time that it is not customary for a Chinese prince to use cards, though on account of his intimate relations with many foreigners he found it convenient to deviate from court usage. Instead of showing you his picture I give below a VISITING CARD OF PRINCE SU.
representation of his card, but I cannot give the full size, which is its most curious feature, being four and one-half by ten inches, and made of thin red paper, much like firecracker paper. It is very possible that Prince Su will be appointed Chinese Secretary of State in the new organization of the government.
You have, no doubt, noticed the gentleman seated near Miss Smith; that is the Rev. Joseph Stonehouse of the Mission, who had spent over twenty years in mission work in China. 1 met him on several occasions and found him a very amiable gentleman and zealous worker; and only a short time after I met him here, Mr. Stonehouse was visiting some of the mission stations not far from Yang-tsun when he was set upon by armed natives, presumably Boxers, while crossing a river in a large ferryboat. Five bullets were fired into his body while he crouched helplessly beneath his travelling cart. His murderers fled; his body was cared for by native Christians in the place where the murder occurred. Cavalry was at once dispatched from Yang-tsun, and the villages near the place were burned, but the bloodthirsty and unreasoning assassins were never found. The London Mission was splendidly equipped for service. Their work was prosperous when the Boxer war broke out and their fine premises were reduced to the condition seen before us.
Probably the most interesting place in the neighborhood of Pekin is the Summer Palace of the Empress among the western hills, some thirteen miles westward. As already stated I made the journey on foot and in a single day, which is a little too much for a pleasure trip. A trip there in memory is much easier and quicker. I remember very distinctly passing over a level plain, along a road flagged with large square stones, past little villages of brick houses with tile roofs, and by waving fields of millet, till I reached the western hills, at the base of which 1 encountered a small lake fed by mountain streams. The lake and the Imperial grounds are surrounded by a high wall. I passed within the wall and around one side of the lake and over a beautiful marble bridge to a small island on the lake on which are erected gates, temples, pavilions and rockeries. You may now stand with me by one of the summer-houses and look across the lake toward the many indescribable structures on the opposite shore.
Turning to Map No. 2, "Eastern China," we find our red route line extending northwest of Pekin to the location of the Summer Palace.