15. A Chinese Bible-woman-Many of these Faithful Teachers Have Suffered Martyrdom.
You cannot fail to note the maternal thoughtfulness of this face, the intelligence, the kindliness. Buddhistic asceticism has left her; almost the Mongolian obliquity of eyes has deserted her since Christian light entered her mind and Christian love her heart. She has been lifted from the low level of her sex among her own people to the level of European culture and refinement, and that by missionary influence. Her adopted Christian religion permits her to smile, which she can do charmingly when not posing for a picture; it also permits her to shake hands Western fashion, on an equality with European men and women, which she does gracefully and modestly. Her new religion has removed her superstitious fear of the camera, and she is pleased, even anxious, to have her picture taken. What a change is wrought in these people by Christian influence! In China women are slaves and playthings. Wives and daughters are treated as animals. Their education is practically forbidden; socially they are ostracised; they do not appear in the streets nor at public functions, and I have been told that a Chinese gentleman is supposed to turn his back when one of the opposite sex passes on the street. Under these circumstances how much emancipation means to Chinese women! Can we wonder that the law of love and equality has transformed the countenance of this Bible-woman! A man, in China, may even kill his wife with impunity, provided he obtains the sanction of the mother (his mother-in-law). Can we wonder, either, that the prayer of the Chinese woman who is a Buddhist and believes in transmigration, is often that in the future existence she may be a man? It would appear from views expressed by the great founder of the Indian religion that his teachings did little to elevate the low state of women in China; for he refers to them in words which might afford grains of comfort to the misogynist and the henpecked husband. Here are his words: "A woman's body has many evil things in it; at birth her parents are not happy; rearing her is without taste' (distasteful); her heart fears men; she must rise early and late, and be very busy; she can never eat before others; her father and mother begrudge the money spent on her wedding;
she must leave father and mother; she fears her husband and has times of travail; if her husband curse her she is not permitted to get angry (talk back); in youth her father and mother rule; in middle life her husband; in old age she is at the beck and call of her grandchildren."
This Bible-woman is seated on the veranda of the home of Mr. and Mrs. Nelson, located in the Shameen. These devoted workers in the field of the foreign mission were evidently much interested in this woman, and spared no effort to enable me to secure views of native types, who under their Christian influence had come to think of foreigners in a reasonable way. Bible-women perform a special work in the mission field. Mr. Nelson explained to me the difficulty of reaching Chinese homes; only men can go to the services when general meetings are held, for it is not considered proper in China for women to assemble with men, or even for young women and ladies of the better class to be seen on the street. In order, therefore, that the homes may be reached and mothers and daughters taught to forsake their idolatrous ways, elderly native Christian women are chosen and specially trained and educated for this work. Elderly women are chosen because they will be tolerated and respected when young women would be insulted. When trained for this special work they are called Bible-women. This Biblewoman is fifty-three years of age; her name is Mak; she belongs to the middle class; is a widow, and had an only son who died of the plague three years ago. The son had been converted to the Christian religion some time before he was stricken with the dreadful malady. On his death bed his faith in his new found “Nirvana was so firm and strong as to turn his mother, who had never been in a Christian church, to the same source of consolation and hope. She applied to Christian women to learn about Jesus; then she applied for admission to the Woman's School of the American Board. She was admitted; but she could neither read nor write. She at once set to work to learn the Chinese characters; she did not ask for aid, but supported herself by selling needles, thread, yarn, etc. She made rapid progress in reading and in Gospel knowledge. Mr. Nelson says it is a common thing to see her with her Testament in hand going out from the school to sit at some home and tell the "Story." Her education necessary for the best work is not yet complete, but while now doing a good work she is still engaged in educating herself. She is very correct in her deportment, and, to show how quick she is to observe, Mr. Nelson tells that when she first entered their foreign built house she remarked: "Your religion is better than the Chinese religions; you are even allowed to move your chair about and sit where you please; while in a Chinese house chairs are not to be moved from their places against the walls." These women are paid not more than two dollars and a half a month, barely enough for food and clothing. In reference to their value and efficiency in the mission field, I give Mr. Nelson's exact words in a letter to me: "One cannot overestimate the amount of good done in China by a Bible-woman, and there are many doing work which far outshines that of their sisters in this country (America). It can be said of many of these humble workers what the Lord said of Mary-'She hath done what she could.'"
We will now be compelled to take leave of Canton; and I regret that we cannot visit more places in this quaint old city. China is a great empire, and we must travel northward; should you desire to make further exploration in this great city on the Pearl River, many other stereographed places may be had of Underwood & Underwood that will enable you to return and visit again this great emporium of the East.
SHANGHAI.
You have not forgotten that great side-wheel steamer that lay within our first panorama overlooking the river at Canton; we now go on board of her and in a few hours we shall be landed back in Hongkong, our startingplace. From Hongkong we shall go northward over a treacherous sea that is the terror of navigators, the China Sea, and through the Formosa Channel to Shanghai, almost a thousand miles north. But what will it cost, do you say? Well, that depends on your purse, or maybe on your fancy or on your economics; maybe it depends on your bringing up. If you have but recently quit your mother's apron-strings or have been accustomed to a nice bed from which you had to lay away the lovely pillow-shams every night, why you must go first class, by the French Mail or the P. & O., which will cost you about fifty dollars. If you are a graduate from the school of hard experience you can go third class on any of the lines plying between the two ports for about fifteen dollars. An intermediate passage, comfortable for those not disturbed by three days of plain living, may be secured for twentyfive dollars. So, then, circumstances being a dictator, let us decide and take one of the many boats that leave Hongkong and touch at Shanghai. But why do I say that our route lies over a part of the ocean that is the terror of navigators? Simply because at certain seasons disastrous tornadoes occur on that sea and in the Formosa Channel. The channel is not very wide, and for that reason it is particularly dangerous during typhoons; but we shall pass through in the early spring and typhoons prevail mostly in midsummer. Therefore, we have nothing to dread. In three days we shall be in Shanghai. In the meantime, on our way, I must tell you something about that city, and when we arrive we shall find an elevated position as we did at Canton, from which we can get a general view. If we turn to Map No. 2, the map of "Eastern China," we find the route line in red which shows our course from Canton to Shanghai.
Far out at sea, before entering the estuary of the great Yang-tse-Kiang, every voyager is struck by the discoloration of the water. If countless giants of the deep had been stirring up an entire sea-bottom of yellow ocher, the water would not exhibit a more turbid yellow. This discoloration continues far north through what is known as the Yellow Sea, and is due to the vast amount of yellow deposit from the two great rivers, the Yang-tseKiang and the Hoang Ho. The map of China is frequently drawn on so small a scale that the location of the city of Shanghai appears to be on the sea-coast; but by the sailing course, when land is first sighted, we are yet forty miles from the city. When we first enter the estuary of the Yang-tse-Kiang we can but indistinctly discover a low lying land at a great distance on the horizon. After a sail of nearly twenty miles up this broad Amazon-like river, we reach the mouth of the Wusung River, where all the great ocean liners anchor to debark passengers for Shanghai. The city is yet twelve miles distant along this river and is reached by steam launches or by railway. No mountains or high lands are anywhere in sight. The Yang-tse, at the mouth of the Wusung, is like a broad muddy lake, and in the direction of its course from the west, the horizon is a meeting of sky and water, as out at sea. The shore is a low, fertile, limitless plain. As we ascend the Wusung, one-story, tile-roofed, gray-brick buildings appear, with evidences of excellent cultivation everywhere. I have said that the great ocean liners anchor at the mouth of the Wusung; yet nearly all large coasting steamers ascend the river and discharge cargo at the docks in Shanghai; even light-draught warships anchor in the river before the city.
Consider then that we have arrived in one of these coasting steamers. The first thing that requires attention is our baggage. There are a few cabs out on the street, and an ample supply of the jaunty little man-carts called jinrikishas, or "rikishas." These are for passengers. For luggage, a droll array of wheelbarrows is in waiting wheelbarrows advanced to a state of utility and capacity unknown in the Western world. Our luggage on the wheelbarrow and ourselves mounted on a dashing, coolie-propelled "rikisha," we are off for a hotel in the European quarter of the city. As we pass along we are amazed at the evidences of up-to-date conditions-wellpaved streets, magnificent modern buildings, street lamps, electric lights, public gardens with music-stands. We can scarcely realize we are in the land of the Chinaman. But for a panorama, that we may get the general view of the city which I promised you, we will ascend to the roof of the Imperial Bank of China and look northward over the street along which we came from the landing-place.
First, though, let us turn to Map 5, a map of the old city of Shanghai, and the English, French and American settlements. The city, we see, is situated on a bend in the Wusung, or, as it is often called here, the Whangpoo River. At this point we find the river flowing in from the south and then turning to the northeast to the Yang-tse-Kiang, from which we have come. The foreign settlements are located on the west and north bank of the river. The old Chinese city, surrounded by a wall, lies just south of the foreign settlements. The outline of its wall is shown on the lower portion of the map. Our steamship wharves are found on the northern bank of the river. Following the river shore to the Soochow Creek, and then southward along the Bund or Yangtsze road, we come to the Imperial Bank, where we are to stand first in Shanghai. The red lines connected with the number 16, which branch toward the north from this point, show what our field of vision is to be. According to these lines we should have the Whangpoo River on our right and part of the row of buildings fronting the river on our left.