12. Mission Children, with One Little American Girl, on "Respondentia Walk," in the European Settlement, Canton.
We are now in the European Settlement, on the walk by the water, looking eastward, down the river, with a group of mission children gathered under the shade of a range of stately banyan-trees. This island is only about three hundred yards in width, separated from the city of Canton by a narrow canal congested with every style of small craft. It comprises chiefly the English and French concessions, and is considered one of the most beautiful and healthful foreign settlements in the Far East. The consulates and the homes of foreigners are all located on the Shameen. The whole island is a bower of beauty; the rows of fine modern buildings are flanked by magnificent banyan-trees, such as you see here on the river-front. There are beautiful flower-gardens, tennis-courts, cycle paths and avenues of palms; and all the feathered tribes of the neighborhood seem to appreciate European conditions and protection; these beautiful trees are all alive with birds of brilliant plumage and melodious with birdsongs. This particular promenade has a most euphonious name; it is called "Respondentia Walk." But perhaps most interesting of all is this group of pretty and welldressed Chinese girls, who have been brought by their devoted American lady teacher from the other side of the river. The little party filled a sampan and landed on the Shameen bright and early, because I had promised them one of their pictures. They are children of the better class, well dressed and tidy and happy in expectation of receiving a picture. The missionary influence on these children is marvelous; they have no superstitious dread of foreigners or cameras; they have been taught self-respect, and to respect foreigners; they are girls, and girls in China, you must know, when they are fortunate enough to escape infanticide, have but meager consideration, and they respond most touchingly to the love bestowed upon them by their affectionate teachers. It is worth while noticing how beautifully they are attired, in silken garments, how carefully the hair is arranged after their fashion, smooth and glossy. Notice also the one American child on the end of the stone seat, and the difference in features between the Caucasian and the Mongolian types; the stiff, straight, black hair of the latter, with oblique eyes, flat nose and rather poor facial lines generally, and the soft, flaxen ringlets that float about the prominent forehead of the former, with mouth and chin that are modeled on Hogarth lines of beauty.
There appears to be the promise of a smile on the face of the girl next the river; a scarce article in China, as already mentioned. A few of them carry handkerchiefs-a missionary innovation, no doubt. Their garments are not ungraceful, with their capacious sleeves and a simple cord at the neck, instead of a stiff starched collar that enforces awkwardness of head movement; note also that at least one girl has her hair knotted on the side of the head, something that is quite common with small girls in China. This bevy of Christianized little Orientals seemed much attached to their teacher, and clung to her skirts and fingers as confiding children do in Western lands. Howmany, such as these, have been ruthlessly sacrificed during the Boxer uprising! I have seen children just as innocent and attractive as those composing this little group, dead in the streets of Tien-tsin after the siege, and floating in the Pei-ho to be devoured by dogs.
These little Christian girls will now return to their boat down there by the wall, recross the great river and tell to their parents the strange things they have seen in the foreign settlement. And we will take an opposite direction, to our left, to a bridge that connects this foreign settlement with the native city. See the short lines marked 13 on the map.