38. Paddy Fields and Group of Jeering Natives at Matin, 700 Miles Inland, Kiangsi Province.
One portion of the crowd following us is there on the bridge; another squad is on the hillside, toward the right, beyond the range of our vision. I made several attempts:
before this view was taken to stereograph this band of rustics at close quarters, but failed, because, although sadly lacking in intelligence, they seemed to know the business front of a camera and scattered with the slightest turn in their direction; but at this distance they do not imagine their pictures can be taken. This is an exceedingly interesting scene; in the first place, because it is in the heart of China; in the second place, because it is in the mountain region where tea is grown; and besides, it shows you paddy or rice fields which I had occasion to mention, but could not show you en route. Here, in the interior, we see again the typical arched bridge, such as we saw at Soo-chow; but this has two arches, with only one in sight. I have seen beautiful bridges in China with over fifty arches; as usual, this bridge is made for footpassers only and is approached by steps. You see, too, the stream that irrigates the valley, flooding the paddy fields; it might be called the purveyor for the whole population. Can we wonder that the Chinese, in their polytheism, give a prominent place to Pingee, the river-god? You see this fluvial fertilizer sparkling again in the distance where the hills draw near together.
Do you know that rice is one of the most valuable, indispensable and universal food products in the world? The Encyclopædia Britannica places it second to wheat, but I refuse to accept that so-called high authority on any statement so obviously erroneous. Europe and the Americas are the chief wheat-eating countries of the world, and China alone has a greater population than all;
157 and China is a country whose food staple is rice. Then we must remember that the vast population of Africa and the other parts of Asia, with the East Indies, are essentially rice-eating peoples. This is why I presume to say, on my own authority, that rice is the most important and universal food product in the world. Here we see it growing in patches, inclosed by ridges of soil and flooded with water. You probably know that rice is an aquatic plant and is supposed to be a native of India, although there are kinds that will grow on high lands. It is sown in mud or water, and when it has grown to be eight or ten inches high it is transplanted, as you see it in these fields.
From the appearance of this field you can now understand the difficulties we encountered on our journey in traversing paddy fields for miles along those narrow ridges in sedan-chairs, and especially in turning those angles.
Those mountains are all tea-lands as far as you can see, although there is no tea in sight except a little line of stunted bushes close down on our right. The tea-plant does not like the vicinity of salt water, but thrives best in mountain air and mountain soil. These peasants do not seem to differ in appearance from those we have seen in other localities; they wear the queue; their heads are shaven; some are half nude; some wear trousers with shirts outside; some are barefoot and some are shod, and all are impudent in a cowardly fashion.
We will descend from the slope on which we stand,
cross the bridge and continue directly across the valley, followed by the gang on the hillside above us and those at the bridge, till we reach the opposite slopes, where we will ascend to a height which will enable us to look back across. the valley almost toward the place we here occupy. While we are making that short distance of about a half mile that native escort will, from a distance in the rear, continue to utter their shouts of mockery and their taunting yells.