7. Looking into Shappat-po Street, from one of the Nightwatch Bridges, Canton.
We are standing on a foot-bridge that enables night. policemen to pass from roof to roof, and are looking down into Shappat-po Street, one of the principal business streets, especially for merchants who deal in European goods. Shappat-po Street is a curious sounding name in our ears because it has not been anglicized. Another street near by called Hog Lane is more intelligible to the Anglo-Saxon, and would scarcely be a misnomer if applied to any of the streets, so narrow and dirty are they all.
I am sure it will not diminish your interest in the scene before us should I state how difficult it is to photograph a dark, narrow, crowded thoroughfare in Canton. Before finding this street, which is more open and better lighted than most streets, I had made three different unsuccessful attempts on different days to obtain a street scene. I had endeavored to hire policemen to stop, for a few moments only, the passing throng, until I could set my camera for a time exposure, as all streets are too dark for instantaneous work. The policemen said they could never stop the crowd. In this place I found an American Mission reading-room, from the roof of which I reached the bridge on which we stand, where some light penetrates into the street below.
A little farther along we can see another foot-bridge over this street, similar to the one on which we stand. Policemen nightly patrol these roofs and cross the streets on these bridges. The buildings are low and the streets are closed by gates or barricades at frequent distances; so that thieves can most readily reach the shops and pass from place to place along the roofs. A further reason for the bridges is that much industrial work is done on the roofs; clothes are here hung out to dry; frames are erected everywhere for the coloring and drying of cloth and yarn. You will perceive a halt among those passers below; they have plainly spied the operator, but do not suspect that the eyes of a stereoscopic camera ever look down into that closely sheltered chasm.
Note how the vertical signs are suspended from poles extended from roof to roof. These characters have little resemblance to our Roman letters; they are read downwards. The nearest sign-board on our left gives simply the name of the shopkeeper, Kwo Heung. The second, in the center of the street, gives the owner's name, Tai Chung Loong, followed by words which in English would be Sewing machine manufactured goods. The next vertical sign to the right belongs to Tin Wah Gok. Another to Wing Fong Lau, who, according to his sign, is a dealer in paper fans, panels and decorated pictures. Do you see the one horizontal board both in English and Chinese which tells us that artificial speech and song have a fascination for the "heathen Chinee"? Here in the very heart of this great, strange hive of human life the phonograph and graphophone are for sale.
Should we go down and enter one of those stores, the doorway would soon be blocked by men and boys (not women, because very few are seen on the streets) who would stop and glower at us as we might stop and gaze curiously at a wild man from some strange land. The shopkeeper would not importune us to buy, neither would he attempt to repel the gaping crowd that fills his doorway; he would stare at us himself, smoke his pipe and keep his seat in statuesque stolidity and scornful indifference, as much as to say: "Not dependent on the patronage of foreign-devils.'" Mongolian etiquette is not Caucasian etiquette; dissimilitude is written on everything.
We have looked at the dingy house-boats and over a wilderness of paintless houses, and now, lest I should lead you to think that the Chinaman has no appreciation of architecture, no love of beauty and no artistic development, we will descend, enter a sedan-chair and be carried and jostled through lanes and byways for some distance, and then enter the court of one of the most beautiful buildings in Canton.