68. Junk Flotilla on the Pei-ho River-Transporting U. S. Army Stores from Tien-tsin to Pekin. General Chaffee's permit is only for transportation. Each traveller must supply his own provisions, cooking utensils and bedding. These quaint craft need little description, as they are before you. They draw only two or three feet of water; their shallow holds are filled with army supplies. The only sleeping-place is under those tarpaulins thrown over the poles, and the season is so far advanced that the north winds are exceedingly uncomfortable. Each boat has a crew of five or six native boatmen, one of whom acts as captain, each junk being in charge of a soldier who cooks his own meals on board. Every boat has a small cabin, in which the crew cook and sleep. With a favorable wind, a sail is used; at other times each boat is towed by the crew with a line attached to the top of the mast. Other lines radiate from the main line to accommodate the several men on the tow-path. The progress upstream with the tow-line is scarcely a mile an hour, and the average time of a passage to TungChow is five or six days. You see this fleet of junks before us is being propelled by the tow-line while its sails. remain unfurled; you see also something of the tortuous course of the river. At certain turns of the river the wind is favorable and the sail is spread. Have you noticed how those slender bamboo poles are used for expanding the sail? Sometimes neither the tow-line nor the sail can be used; then poles are employed; these are thrust into the muddy bottom at the bow, the end is placed against the shoulder and then the coolies walk rapidly to the stern of the boat, thumping heavily the deck with their feet at every step. This habit of pounding with their feet at every step as they push from bow to stern is one of the strangest customs among these boatmen. They seem to think that it adds to their effort in pushing. The effect during the still hours of night is very curious-they "keep step," and there are often several fleets passing in opposite directions at the same time, and the rhythmic pounding of so many bare feet on the hollow sounding decks in the dead of night I cannot forget.
The native commerce on this small stream, in boats like these, in times of peace, is enormous. The river is narrow and shallow and is frequently silting up and changing 259 its bed. The boats touch the banks at many points and one can debark and embark almost at any time without stopping the progress of the fleet. I found walking on the tow-path in the cool autumn weather much pleasanter than the deck of a junk like this, and I walked the greater part of the distance between Tien-tsin and Pekin. Standing here, we get a true aspect of the Pei-ho and the kind of boats that ply the river; we see also the level character of the river plain and the small growth of shrubbery and trees in the distance. We get some idea of the alluvial soil, though we do not see the prevailing crops. We happen to be at a place on the river where the cultivated fields do not extend up to the river bank. The soil everywhere is exceedingly rich, and alternating crops of corn, millet, beans, sweet potatoes, peanuts, sorghum and melons have marked the fertile valley all the way between these two great cities. But the crops have not been harvested; the villages and homes are deserted. I said the crops had not been harvested-I meant by the owners; many of them for almost a mile on either side of the river have been plundered by the men of the junk-fleets belonging to the different armies. The native junkmen were permitted to go ashore and gather in corn and millet to fill all the empty space available; the Europeans took whatever they could use. The inhabitants had fled well back from the river, leaving crops and sometimes live stock. Many a pig that had been left behind and ventured to the river bank became a victim to the deadly army rifle. Occasionally some of the people who had fled from their homes returned under cover of night to gather in something of their wasting harvest. It was a sad sight to see such vast fields of valuable crops being lost, and cold winter near at hand and starvation awaiting many. On one occasion I attempted, while walking, to cut off a great bend in the river by what I imagined would be a short way across country. After penetrating about three miles I reached villages containing skulking refugees, at least stragglers, partially in hiding. At first sight of me they scampered pell-mell into the forests of millet; this grain is often from twelve to fifteen feet high and affords a safe and interminable retreat. At one farm where a poor old woman carrying a bundle of grain on her back attempted to cross the road some fifty yards ahead of me, and little suspecting the presence of a "foreign devil" so far back from the river, furtively cast her eyes both ways on the road. She spied me, dropped her bundle as though she had been fired upon, jumped into the dry millet field and in a moment was out of sight. It gave me a sensation of sadness I never before experienced, and even now, long afterward, it steals over me when I recall the incident—an innocent, harmless fellow mortal fleeing from me in frenzied terror. She thought I sought her life; and to be suspected of seeking to take life shocked me, I dare say, as much as my presence frightened her. It is almost a pity that this terrified woman could not have known that the alarm was mutual. By this time I had decided that the road I had been following did not lead to the river, and was on my way back by the same road on which I had come. I was sure I was among Boxers. I had no weapon whatever about me. I secured two cornstalks and arranged them to have the appearance of a gun and carried this makebelieve affair as I would have carried a gun so that Boxers back in the fields would think I was not defenseless. In this mood of nervous apprehension I was working my way back when the poor terrified woman dived into the field of millet. We were much in the same condition except that my fright up to that point had not settled in my heels quite to the same extent as hers. I, however, made good time back to the river.
Three times a day I made my cocoa by means of my spirit lamp, and as often did I have my bread and oleomargarine and a fragrant hunk of automatic cheese out of a box that once held two five-gallon cans of kerosene oil. After walking, sailing, towing and poling for five days we reached Tung-Chow, the end of the journey by junk. All the nations had a transporation service of junks here, and they lined the bank of the river for a great distance. It is thirteen miles from Tung-Chow to Pekin, and that distance had to be made in a four-mule wagon over the worst kind of a road, axle-deep in mud. The only accommodation at Tung-Chow was an army tent kept for soldiers passing either way. In this I spent the night with a single soldier, who shared with me such remnants of things eatable as we could find in my kerosene box. On the following morning, after lashing some eight or ten pieces of baggage on the top of a well-filled government wagon, I mounted the high seat with a mule driver well versed in all up-to-date vocabularies of profanity for the final stage of my journey from Tung-Chow, the nearest port on the Pei-ho River, to Pekin.
PEKIN.
About mid-afternoon, after thirteen miles of dislocating jolts, and weary with hearing the driver's lurid swearwords, we reach the famous capital of the Chinese Empire October 9, 1900. And now that we have arrived, at what gate shall we enter? This same question confronted the Allies, and some entered at one gate and some at another.
That we may get our bearings from the very beginning, let us turn to Map No. 8, a plan of Pekin. The vast wall which encompasses the city is in the general form of a quadrangle, corresponding with the four cardinal points. of the compass, the greater length lying exactly north and south. A transverse wall cuts off the southern third of the quadrangle, and within this is the strictly Chinese section of Pekin, the Chinese City. The northern two-thirds is what is known as the Tartar City. The central position of this latter area walled off by itself is the Imperial City, and yet within this is the walled Forbidden City. A small outline plan of these several city areas is given on the upper left-hand side of the main map. This small plan also shows the besieged district. The wall of Pekin extends about five and one-half miles from north to south, and three and one-half miles from east to west.
Coming from Tien-tsin we have approached the wall on the east side near the junction of the Tartar and Chinese cities. At this place the Tung-pien-men or Tung-pien Gate opens into the Chinese City. It was at this gate the American forces entered. We enter here also and pass along within the Chinese City, close to the wall separating it from the Tartar City, until we reach the Ha-ta-men, or Ha-ta Gate, for our first view of the Chinese Capital. Note the two red lines which start from this gate and branch toward the left or west, each having the number 69 at its end outside the wall. We are to stand now on the wall, at the point from which these lines start and look west over that part of the city lying between them.