75. Ruins Around the Legations Burned by Chinese, from Chien-men (gate) where Captain Reilly was Killed-Pekin.
When we stood on the Ha-ta Gate for our first view in Pekin, we looked westward along the wall to the Chien Gate, which we could see in the distance, about a mile away. I told you then that later we would visit the latter and stand on the place where Captain Reilly fell. Now we are on that spot, as nearly as I could have it located, and looking a little north of east and toward the British Legation, which we can see in the middle distance to the right of that tall pole.
The Boxers and Imperial troops in the vicinity of this gate, after repeated attempts on the united Legations, thought to facilitate further attacks by burning the intervening portion of the city. The fire did its work, as you see; but the troops failed in theirs. I was told by good authorities that this burned district, destroyed ruthlessly and uselessly, represented, at a low estimate, five million dollars' worth of property. Here were the Ginseng shops, which drug the Chinese prize so highly. The fire that swept this district also swept away the Methodist Mission and the Austrian, Belgian, Netherland and French Legations. The day after the foreign armies entered the city the guns of Captain Reilly's battery were mounted on this gate and trained on the gates of the Imperial City, which lie north of us to our left; after the gates had been demolished and the way cleared for the entry of the troops, and at the moment of victory the gallant leader, standing where we now stand, was instantly killed by a rifle bullet.
This gate is one of the largest and one of the most imposing and important in Pekin; the entire upper structure is burned and is now only a mass of ruins.
A great thoroughfare lies beneath us. Toward our left or the north it leads through lofty gateways into the Imperial City and thence into the Palace, which embraces a large area surrounded by massive walls; southward or to our right it leads across the southern or Chinese portion of the city. We are to turn southward for a half mile and visit this central highway.