67. Li Hung Chang, China's Greatest Viceroy and Diplomat-Photographed in His Yamen, Tientsin, September 27, 1900.
This meek and bland-looking old man who sits before you was at this time the talk of the world—would he be allowed to land at Tien-tsin? Would he be reinstated? Would he be authorized to negotiate terms of peace? He seemed to be the only man who understood this great international difficulty. He was allowed to land. He occupied the Viceroy's Yamen across the river outside the walled city (see map northeast of walled city). It was important to obtain a stereoscopic record of this distinguished personage. Through the courtesy of an American doctor who desired a photograph of the ex-Viceroy and who had some acquaintance with Dr. Parks, his medical adviser, I visited the Yamen. His Excellency being engaged with important matters of state, kindly consented to sit for us on the following day at a fixed hour. At the hour appointed we were met by the genial Dr. Parks, who, as soon as I had chosen a well-lighted part of this court in the Yamen, had servants bring out this finely inlaid stand and the chair in which he sits. When cameras were placed in position and everything in perfect readiness, his chair-bearers were notified and he was brought from his rooms in his official chair and assisted by his attendants to the chair in which you see him. He greeted us with a pleasant smile and spoke to us freely through Dr. Parks as interpreter. His natural simplicity and the entire absence of affected importance was quite fascinating; kingcraft is nearly extinct; the time when a sovereign could make his subject revere him as a demigod belongs to the past. A truly great man has no occasion to pretend greatness; only those who are not great find it necessary to resort to affectation. Neither Earl Li's great wealth nor his great attainments have in any degree left a trace of self-importance in his manner. His left eye has a quizzical droop which seems to be the premonition of an ever-ready smile. He personifies the simplicity and naturalness of a truly great mind. He is vigorous in intellect, but somewhat feeble in his limbs; he is supported to and from his palanquin. He is richly dressed in heavy brocaded satin. In the front of his cap you see an ornament; it is a circle of pearls around a large ruby. When I asked Dr. Parks if he could remove the cap of his Excellency for one stereograph, the doctor explained to him and removed the cap. This caused Earl Li to smile as though he would have said: "What can they want with my bald pate?" Even that fine blackwood table, inlaid with mother-of-pearl, upon which his arm rests, is worth noticing; this style of furniture is much used by the wealthy.
Nearly all the world is more or less familiar with leading events in the life of this Bismarck of the Orient; but for those who may not be, I will take the following résumé from "The Chinese Empire Past and Present."
"The modern development of China is due more to Li Hung Chang than to any other single agency. He is immensely wealthy and has held nearly every post of honor that China could give him, though likewise at irregular intervals, he has been deprived of all position and power; his "yellow jacket" has been taken from him, and his head has been in danger. He was born in 1819 of pure Chinese blood. In three successive literary examinations he stood first, and in 1847 was enrolled in the Hanlin or Imperial Academy, the highest literary degree in the empire. He was an official in the Imperial printing office when the Taiping Rebellion broke out. In this war he became prominent and was appointed governor. He immediately saw the value of European military organization and equipment and formed the "ever-victorious Force," a Chinese Corps, armed, drilled and disciplined according to European fashion, first under the direction of the American, Ward, and then of the celebrated Gordon. Henceforth Li threw all his force and influence into the adoption in China of Western arts and sciences.
"In 1870 he was made viceroy of Chili, the province in which Pekin is located.
"In 1872 he had thirty Chinese boys sent to the United States to be educated, and established a college in Pekin, under Dr. W. H. P. Martin.
"In 1880 he took advantage of the Russian war scare to improve the army and navy and establish the telegraph, which now comprises a network of over ten thousand miles. Simultaneously he worked for railroads. A short line had been built from Shanghai to Wusung, but this was bought and dismantled the next year by the government. Li maintained, however, the agitation for railways until in 1888, when an active beginning was made, and the work has gone steadily on ever since. In 1877 he bought four ironclads just built in England for the royal navy, and so laid the foundation for the present Chinese modern navy. He has likewise so cleverly managed diplomatic relations with France upon their nominal victory in the war in 1884-85 over Formosa, that China got decidedly the best of it in the net result.
"Under his encouragement joint stock companies have been organized for various industrial enterprises, such as silk, cotton, wool, glass and iron manufactures.
"Li Hung Chang belongs to the native party, and is ready to resist the encroachments of foreign nations with all the arts of diplomacy at his command."
With a single spark of patriotism in his breast, how can he feel otherwise? He favors progress and development; but how can he look with favor and equanimity upon foreign encroachment and the exploitation of his native land by nations whose customs and institutions he does not like. China has been the victim of exploitation and commercialism for centuries, and that because she is rich in resources, old-fashioned and unwarlike.
If she had developed the arts of war as long and as well as she has the arts of peace, the foreign nations, even the allied foreign nations, would not have dared to coerce treaty ports and naval stations in her borders, or to thrust a new religion and a new civilization upon her. There is much of the bully and the child about all these affairs in China.
When might makes right, justice is usually out of the balance, and there is apt to be greed and cowardice in its place.
I have no special love for the Chinese, but it does not seem to me that they get fair play. The average European and the average American knows no more about the Chinese people than he does about the possible inhabitants of the stellar worlds.
The Boxer uprising was stupid and barbarous. The retaliation by the so-called Christian armies was often characterized by rape, plunder, cruelty, and enormous indemnities dictated by allied might. The Golden Rule has been quite lost sight of in the ravages of trade, greed and tyranny. What would we think if England should demand a cession of territory on Casco Bay that she might have a winter port for the Canadian Pacific Railway? And then, if Russia should demand a naval station on Massachusetts Bay to equalize strategic points? And again, if these demands should be followed by one from Germany for a grant of territory in Plymouth harbor, because some alien countryman had been killed by irresponsible ruffians at Worcester? I hope this parallel is not altogether unfair. It ought, at least, to be suggestive.
When we had finished our stereographs from this position we asked Dr. Parks that His Excellency might be carried through the open court into bright sunlight in order that we might obtain a view of him in his official chair. This was done, and as we pressed the bulb and lifted our hats, the venerable statesman smiled acknowledgments and was borne to his spacious rooms within the Yamen.
A most exasperating delay in the delivery of my photographic plates kept me in Tien-tsin for weeks after the battle. Boxes of plates which arrived at Shanghai June 24 did not reach me until the middle of September. In the meantime many additional forces had arrived, among them many additional troops from Germany, from India,
from Japan and Russia. The Legations in Pekin had been practically in a state of siege since June. In the early part of August the greatly increased force of the Allies started for Pekin. On the way they fought the battles of Peitsang and Yangtsun, and burned the city of Tung-Chow and all the villages left standing by the Boxers in their line of march.
This march of the allied troops between Tien-tsin and Pekin occupied ten days, and they entered the latter place on August 15, just a month and a day after the capture of the former city. Now that about twenty thousand troops were quartered in the Imperial capital, the transportation of vast quantities of army stores to that place was necessary. To accomplish this the different armies requisitioned great numbers of native junks, and these plied constantly between Tien-tsin and Tung-Chow, the nearest port to Pekin. Before boarding one of these junks at Tien-tsin for Tung-Chow I shall tell you briefly how I maintained my existence during and after the investment of the former place.
It would seem that under even a quasi-military rule, civilians have few if any rights; the civilian furnishes the sinews of war; he pays the taxes which maintain the army and the navy; but he has scarcely a right to his own property or his own soul when petty military officers. are invested with a little brief authority. Many citizens, both American and English, complained bitterly of the high-handed, unlawful and impudent way in which officers took possession of private houses which had been temporarily vacated, using and misusing everything found therein, including libraries, pianos, bedding, etc., notwithstanding the fact that these same civilian owners are paying taxes to furnish the army with all necessary camp equipments. Three times I had received permission from agents of the owners to occupy private houses which had for a time been vacated, when American officers came, and in a way which I fear is somewhat characteristic of my countrymen said: Get out of this%; we want these rooms!" An English, a Japanese or a Russian officer would have said: "Sorry to disturb you, but we will require these rooms." Bluster is not bravery. Suaviter in modo fortiter in re.
After three removals, by the courtesy of Mr. Denby, son of ex-Minister Denby, I was allowed to occupy a room in a series of Chinese buildings under his charge. Here I remained undisturbed until I went to Pekin. This room was my abode for three months; it was my bedroom, my kitchen, my parlor, my developing room. It contained some Chinese furniture-a raised platform, or Chinese bedstead, a table and some stools. I secured a spirit lamp with which I cooked the few things which required cooking. It was some time after the capture of the city of Tien-tsin before supplies came in from Shanghai. During that tine there was great scarcity, and it was often difficult to obtain a sufficiency of food to allay the gnawings of hunger. To make matters worse, mails had failed to bring to the North registered letters and other valuable matter. My letter of credit was two months overdue.
Things were a little uncomfortable when so little food could be bought, but when my last penny was gone a famine seemed near at hand. I don't mind missing a few meals, but a fast of a few days makes unpleasant cavities about one's anatomy. Fasting has an uncomfortable sensation, but it is more bearable than asking favors of the military, which I might have done. I did, however, make a pretense of dropping in casually upon the cook of the U. S. Marines to ask him if he could spare a little rice. He pointed to a small starch-box on the floor half filled with rice and clay and straw, saying at the same time, “That's good rice if you only wash it enough." I carried it off quite thankfully, and, sure enough, when washed in five or six waters, it assumed a normal white, and I feasted several days upon this, seasoned with a pinch of salt. One day during this period of scarcity, while on the street, I saw a potato drop from a passing commissary wagon. This I seized, and following the wagon for a half-mile picked up in all seven potatoes and one onion. With these I returned to my room in a mood of triumphant forage; 1 pared, sliced and boiled them together in a small tin pot on my spirit lamp. I seasoned with salt and a small portion of rancid oleomargarine left in a tin which had been opened two months before. That meal I shall never cease to regard as the acme of gastronomic pleasure. People try many things for an appetizer, but seldom try fasting. This veritable feast had predisposed me to potatoes, and on another occasion, having seen a quantity of fresh potato parings thrown out in a yard near a street, I decided to return after night-fall to secure them. When night came on, taking a quantity of matches in my pocket to enable me to find the exact spot, I walked back one mile to obtain this tempting prize of potato parings; but on reaching the place a number of officers were seated near by and my pride defeated my plan to secure another feast, for I could not take them in the presence of the officers. I returned bootless and retired to my hard bed with hunger unappeased. This state of scarcity continued until one day an American soldier came to me, all his pockets sagging with syce (bars of silver), and asked me to buy. I told him I had no money. Seeing my watch and chain, he said, "What kind of a watch have you?" I replied, "A good Elgin watch." Without a moment's hesitation he offered his bars of silver for my watch. The swap" was promptly consunimated, and I had one hundred and fifty dollars worth of silver bullion, that is, about twenty pounds. This relieved the money market and in some measure the fast, for soon the natives began to return to the city and to the settlement. After a while they commenced to bring in produce, which ended the famine. About this time more American troops arrived, one company encamping in the compound about my room. I formed many pleasant acquaintances among these men and officers; sometimes giving accommodation to them in my room, and in turn they would accompany me in my outings with the camera, rendering valuable assistance. Through these generous-hearted boys I obtained many war-souvenirs and enjoyed many acts of courtesy; but we cannot go further into details.
We now pass, October 3, to the river before the Quartermaster's office, already shown you, and embark on one of the junks requisitioned by the American army to transport supplies to Pekin.
Turning to Map No. 2, the map of Eastern China, we trace the part of our route just before us by the red line which runs from Tien-tsin to Pekin. A short distance from Tien-tsin we find the number 68 in a circle, both in red, with a zig-zag line running to our route line. At this place we stop to inspect a line of junk boats on the Pei-ho River.