8. Splendors of Chun-Ka-Chie, the Ancestral Hall of the Great Chun Family of Canton.
Many believe that nothing has contributed more to the vastness and perpetuity of the Chinese Empire than their practical recognition of a commandment promulgated both by Moses and Confucius, the fifth in the Mosaic decalogue: "Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee."
According to Confucius, in his "Filial Piety Classic," "There are three thousand crimes to which one or the other of the five kinds of punishments is attached as a penalty, and of those no one is greater than disobedience to parents"; but filial piety in the Chinese cult is very misleading. It is not at all identical with what we look upon as children's obedience and respect for their parents in Western countries. The meaning would be better expressed if the so-called filial piety were termed veneration for ancestors, both immediate and remote, which, of course, should naturally begin with reverence for parents living. Homage to ancestors antedates Confucius; but he has emphasized its importance, and now it may be regarded as the religion of the Empire. To honor and commemorate the family line, therefore, shrines or temples are erected in which memorial tablets are placed to different members of the clan or family. This temple or ancestral hall before us has been erected, and is maintained by members of the Chun Clan, which has existed for some sixty generations. The Chun family were the founders and are still the proprietors of the Chun-li-Chai, the house name of an old medicine firm which has been in existence for a thousand years, and of which there are two establishments still to be found. This beautiful ancestral temple is a shrine at which all members of the Chun Clan, from the humblest to the highest, can place their memorial tablets for those who have gone before. There are three pavilions in this exquisite temple; in the center one, contributors of two hundred taels have the first privilege. The second pavilion is for members who can afford only one hundred taels, a third for those who are only able to pay forty taels. The walls are of brick, the floors of the courts are of granite slabs. The slender columns and the massive paneled balustrades are of gray granite. Notice the representations of grape-vines worked out on posts and panels. Even more elaborate still are the porcelain decorations on the roofs; notice the fantastic designs that extend from the ridge of the roof to the eaves; also the roof of the arcade running across the court; these are all wrought in richly colored porcelains. Considerable time could be spent in examining the wonderful carving and grotesque decorative art in this charming structure, which is considered the finest in this part of the Empire. By a handful of "cash" (a small copper coin, seventeen of which make one cent) I induced those three juvenile Celestials to stand where you see them; but do not imagine that these boys are the only life near us; just out of sight at our left, the court is well filled with gaping onlookers, who were kept back with great difficulty. The gate of the temple had to be closed to exclude the crowd on the street. They are eager to see, but afraid to pose. You cannot conjecture what I regarded as the rarest personal phenomenon that obtained in connection with that little trio; it was something seen everywhere in Japan, but seldom in a Chinese crowd or individual; I mean that I caught once on one of those faces a genuine, roguish, first-class, fun-loving smile. I was afraid the boy lacked "filial piety." The Japanese are a laughing people; but the Chinese countenance is cold, expressionless, and as immobile as that of the eternal Sphinx. The ready laugh usually denotes a genial nature, which is often lacking in the Chinese people. The boy and little child are a familiar feature of domestic life in China. Everywhere one may see very small boys and girls carrying and caring for younger brothers and sisters; in this respect they are certainly not only filial, but fraternal and useful.
We have had a single glance into one court of this beautiful Ancestral Hall of Chun-Ka-Chie and will now, followed by a hundred gazing onlookers, turn out into the narrow street again and wend our way toward the west to another temple, old and dingy, but which constitutes one of the chief attractions to all who visit Canton.