60. Motley Crowds and Jumbled Huts of Old Tien-tsin –View Inside South Gate soon after the City was occupied.
Here we have a general view looking east along the old wall which swings to the left in the distance. The German Club building, from which we obtained our first panoramas of the battlefield, lies over a mile farther to the right than we can see. We have again, from this position, a view of the Japanese military supply force, and there, near us, is an officer's horse; we see bands of coolies, probably commandeered for service; we see a line of captured “rikishas"; we may observe also this range of poorer houses made of mud; the better buildings are of brick, but all of one low story as usual. You may notice many of these mud-houses pinked with bullet holes, made by shots passing over the wall and, more than likely, by some volleys fired after the entrance at the gate, which now lies behind us. Farther on, a little to the left, we may see where a shell has penetrated a mud-roof; but still more interesting are buildings beyond, fronting on this same street where you see an open space, flanked by a brick wall; they are to the left of the wall and are a little higher than the surrounding structures. They constitute a native arsenal and were well filled with all sorts of war materials, including cannon, rifles of many kinds, swords, ammunition, flags, soldiers' clothing, etc. There is no doubt but that the ample supply of this military storehouse furnished many a souvenir to both civilian and soldier. After the capture of the city it was divided into districts, and the different districts were assigned to troops of different nations for control and government. This portion of the city was assigned to the Americans. This district extends from the South Gate nearly to the tower we see in the distance, and to the left an equal distance. Fortunately for the Americans the district contained both an arsenal and a mint; more correctly the so-called mint was a public building for the safe-keeping of syce or silver bullion received from all parts of the Empire, in payment for salt, which is produced in great quantities from sea-water, by solar evaporation, and shipped to the different Provinces. In giving an account of this mint or salt-yamen, as we will call it, I must anticipate, in order that you may understand the interest attached to the scene before us; that is, I must tell you something of what transpired several days after the capture of the city, that you may better understand the scene presented here on the day following the battle.
The location of the salt-yamen is indicated by those two tall poles resembling flag-poles off to our left; the buildings, at the time we are looking on the scene, are still smoldering, and few seemed to know that said buildings contained great quantities of bullion. Soon after I was here I met an Anierican soldier who had in his possession an old bag containing about as much silver as he could conveniently carry. He said, "Look in this bag!" I looked, and, sure enough, there was a back-load of bright bars; but I had some doubts about it being silver. I suspected I had become possessed of one of those old tantalizing dreams about finding money. I said to him, How much apiece for those bars?" "Two dollars and a half; there's plenty more over there," was his reply. It proved, however, to be silver of the first quality, worth thirty-five dollars per bar. I had not qualified as a broker and the opportunity was lost. During the following night, and before the military officers in command were fully aware of the great quantity of silver in the burning ruins, soldiers and others had carried off vast amounts. From this source syce became so plentiful in the settlement that the military authorities prohibited the banks from buying it, and made some attempts to confiscate what had been thus taken by individuals. The ruins of the salt-yamen proved a veritable silver mine. A guard was placed over it finally, and the silver was removed to the headquarters of the U. S. Marines; but what disposition was finally made of this rich capture I have never been able to learn. And, as to the amount, I cannot say authoritatively, but it was currently reported at one and a half millions of dollars. This, however, I know, that when it was brought into the marine headquarters I made a photograph of nine four-mule wagon loads of silver, all standing at one time before the marine barracks, and was told that these nine four-mule teams would have to make a second trip to the yamen for the balance. It was well known later that the Americans were not the only ones among the allied troops who found and carried away treasure. It was a great surprise to me, on returning to the United States, to learn that so little mention had been made of these captures of such enormous quantities of bullion; indeed, up to the present, I have never met any one who had even heard of it.*
If we turn about and follow the wall westward, only a few paces, past the tower on which we saw the American flag floating, we shall be within the section of the city occupied by the French. From that point we shall look somewhat east of north over the center of the conquered city. Our position and field of vision is given on the map by the red lines which start from the south wall, a short distance west of the South Gate, and branch northeast. The number 61 is given at the starting point of these lines and at their ends on the map margin.
* From the New York Tribune of March 11, 1902, we quote the following "According to a dispatch from Washington dated January 23, Secretary Hay that day handed to Minister Wu-Ting-Fang a draft on the United States Treasury for $376,600, the value of the silver bullion captured by American marines at Tien tsin." THE PUBLISHERS.