36. View Along the Bund from Municipal Council Building, Hankow.
This scene is not only full of beauty; it is full of life and instruction. The beauty of those buildings and rows of trees with well-kept lawns and walks and well-paved streets is enhanced by the recollection that it is in the heart of China, six hundred miles from the sea. I expected to find a few Europeans here, but not this charming vista of 136 modern buildings and beautified grounds. I expected Western conditions at Shanghai, but not at Hankow. We are looking eastward and down the river; behind this line of trees, on our right, is another promenade, overlooking the broad river and some fifty feet above it, flanked by a protecting wall. Long flights of stone steps lead down to steamboat landings at different places. The great river is here nearly a mile in width, full of life and activity. It is instructive to know that this state of affairs has been established here since 1858, when, by the treaty of Nankin, Hankow became an open port. The native quarter is very unlike this; it is, as I have remarked of other native cities, redolent of every known and unknown odor and teeming with filthy myriads of human life. I was told that several Chinese gentlemen of Hankow made an effort to persuade their fellow townsmen to attempt to model the native city in some measure after the European Settlement, but the proposition met with so little favor that it was given up. To change the ways of the masses of the Chinese people promises to be a "steady job." Here again, we see few, if any, Europeans; this will be partially explained if you notice the shortness of the shadows. cast by those figures in the foreground; I mean that you may see it is near midday, when Europeans, in hot weather, are seldom on the streets; but the whole place is animated with coolies, many of them pole-coolies, as they. are called, because nearly all transportation is done by them by means of these poles. One coolie will carry a hundred-weight on each end of one of these poles. A coolie holds his carry-pole in great esteem, for it is his means of livelihood. We are here standing on the balcony of the Town Hall, and when I attempted to make this view the people near at hand fled as though Mara (Chinese Pluto) had suddenly arisen in their midst; a "Fangqwei" with a camera is scarcely less dreaded. This street immediately below us was entirely vacated. The idea occurred to me that if I should cast handful of cash down into the street, cupidity might overcome superstition and bring the coolies close again. I have previously explained to you that seventeen cash are equal to one cent and make a good handful. I gave to my native porter a handful of cash and explained to him how, at a given time, he must throw the cash to the coolies below. I returned to an inner room to prepare my apparatus, and when I returned and asked my porter where the cash was he replied: "Coolie have got." The stupid fellow, not understanding my directions, had thrown them to the street in my absence; but they had served a good purpose, for, by this time, the street was full as you see it now, all eager and expectant. I threw another handful, which was instantly followed by a chaos of heads, heels, poles, prostrations, "flip-flips" and somersaults. When there was a partial restoration to mental and physical equipoise, and when they had become engaged, seemingly, in conference as to whether another shower of hard cash was to be expected and whether a madman or a veritable Carnegie had arrived in the foreign settlement, I manipulated my camera.
When I first reached Hankow I supposed I was in the heart of the tea-growing region; but I soon learned I could not reach the nearest plantation without a tedious journey of a hundred miles; and that this journey must be made in a house-boat, through canals and inland lakes and rivers for eighty miles, and then, when I reached the mountains, the last part of the trip, some twenty miles, would have to be made in a sedan chair carried by coolies. The worst feature of the adventure was the hostility of the people in the province through which the journey lay, for at this time the Boxer uprising was agitating the usual bitterness toward foreigners into frenzied aggressiveness. But I decided to make the attempt, and a companion was deemed indispensable. The American Vice-Consul found a fearless and adventurous young man, son of ex-Consul Childs, who was quite willing to accompany me for the sport of hunting on the way. This young fellow was powerful and brave almost to recklessness, and, as he said, any half-dozen Boxers would only be “Child's" play for him. We at once set to work to prepare for the trip; he furnished one double-barreled breech-loading shot-gun and a MartiniHenri rifle, with an abundance of ammunition; he also engaged from a friend of his, a Russian merchant, a suitable house-boat with sleeping accommodations; later I will show you the boat. Next, we engaged a crew, consisting of a captain, four coolies, a cook and an interpreter. We went to a native grocery and laid in a supply of provisions, such as we could get-chiefly canned goods and several dozen bottles of soda-waterwe knew drinking-water would be difficult to find. Mr. Childs said we must take a couple of bottles of whisky, because he was acquainted with a mandarin up the river who was fond of it, and that his favor was worth two bottles; I remonstrated that one bottle was enough for one mandarin. "Yes," he replied, "but we may find another mandarin"; and so we did. Our grocery supply cost fifteen dollars; it included several loaves of settlement bread. Only "cash" is known in the rural districts; silver is worthless. I gave our cook five Mexican dollars to be exchanged for "cash." He returned with a back-load all strung on strings, about one dollar's worth on each, the five straps weighing thirty pounds; this is no exaggeration; because the spectacle of our cook returning with thirty pounds of coin hung over his shoulders and around his neck was so ludicrous that I weighed a one dollar strap, which was just six pounds. A very brief and limited shopping expedition in a native town necessitates a coolie with a wheelbarrow to carry the change. After much preparatory running back and forth, we sailed near eleven o'clock at night. Our houseboat was fitted with sail, but, in the absence of wind, it must be towed by hand by means of long lines from the shore. A light night breeze carried us across the river, where the coolies went ashore with the tow-line and towed through the night while we essayed to sleep in our new and confined quarters. When we arose in the morning we found we had made little progress up the great river, Hankow being still plainly in sight;
some time before noon we reached Kinkow, an important town on the Yang-tse only about twenty miles from our starting-place; here we entered a canal or creek which connects the Yang-tse with a small lake some twenty miles inland. Now let us go ashore just for an opportunity to look at our house-boat.