14. Dying in the "Dying-field," where Discouraged Poor are Allowed to Come and Die, Canton. Dying-places are ordinarily in homes or in hospitals, but this poor fellow has neither a home nor a hospital in which to die. We are here in a vacant space near the river a sort of a common littered with refuse and scavenged by starving dogs. It has been named the Dyingplace, because poor, starving, miserable outcasts and homeless sick, homeless poor, homeless misery of every form come here to die. The world scarcely can present a more sad and depressing spectacle than this field of suicides; I say suicides, because many that come here come to voluntarily give up the struggle for existence and to die by sheer will force through a slow starvation. They may be enfeebled by lingering disease; they may be unable to find employment; they may be professional vagrants; they come from different parts of the city and sometimes from the country round about. They are friendless; they are passed unnoticed by a poor and inadequate hospital service; they become utterly discouraged and hopeless and choose to die. Their fellow natives pass and repass without noticing them or thought of bestowing aid or alms, and here it is not expected; they have passed beyond the pale of charity; it is the last ditch; they are here to die, not to receive alms, and no one thinks of bestowing them. The pitiable specimen before us is near the end-too near to heed the usually dreaded camera. I attempted to catch a view of others, who, having a trifle more vitality left, crawled away on hands and knees. His glassy, fixed gaze tells how soon his long, hard struggle will be over; how soon even the grimy rags that cover his nakedness will be unnecessary. With a stone for his pillow, a sack for his garment, without food or friends, an uncoffined grave will soon be his; he has begged a fellow mortal for work, but it was refused him. Would that the vast numbers who squander extravagantly and needlessly unearned wealth could witness the innumerable instances like this-of existence so full of suffering that death is welcome. This far-gone. case of destitution and misery is not the only one in this last retreat of human agony; you see another in the distance, probably a new arrival, as he yet has strength to sit erect. I have been several times to this haunt of agony and have always found several sitting or lying in different parts of the ground. When death ends their sufferings they often remain several days before the tardy authorities remove the body, and when removed it is borne to an unknown grave in the potter's field. Probably you do not care to tarry longer before this harrowing scene in the "Dying-place." It is the darkest and the saddest, and we can find a brighter scene. Go with me to the Shameen, to the home of a faithful missionary, and there we can see a different face, a countenance illuminated by Christian "Nirvana," a Chinese Biblewoman.