70. North from Ha-ta-men (gate) over Scene of the German Minister, Baron Ketteler's, Murder, now called Von Ketteler Street, Pekin.
Looking out over this scene you will obtain a better idea of the appearance of Pekin than chapters of description could give; the buildings scarcely need description; you see them very distinctly. This street, however, is slightly Europeanized by being macadamized for a short distance, owing, I presume, to its proximity to Legation Street, which is the first street leading west down on our left. A narrow surface drain extends along the street for a short distance, as you see; this is also an innovation we will attribute to the Europeans; no normal Chinaman of today could ever comprehend the advantages of a sewer. Nowhere else in Pekin can a piece of paved street or a single yard of sewerage be found, barring Legation Street, which is altogether European.
This northern part of Pekin was built by the Mongol conquerors about eight hundred years ago. Kublai Khan thought bad luck was attached to the old city to the south, so he had that city destroyed and built this northern city. giving it wide streets, as the Mongols were used to plenty of air on the prairies to the north. He also built the northern city much larger than at present. Under most of the streets in those days fine stone sewers were made, but they have been filled up with débris by the Chinamen of later times. Pekin could easily be made into a beautiful city. Splendid springs of clear cold water burst from the mountain-side ten miles to the north, and old Kublai Khan had aqueducts made to bring the water into the city. These also have fallen into disuse. The Manchu, or reigning dynasty, are Tartars. Said one European resident of Pekin: "The Manchus are lazy and growing lazier every year. If the recent troubles in China should eventuate in driving the Manchus back to their native home in Manchuria, no one would mourn."
This street before us has been rendered famous by the murder of the German Minister, Baron von Ketteler, whose name it now bears, being formerly called Ha-ta-men Street. The German Legation is near the other Legations, about a half mile to the left from where you see its termination on Von Ketteler Street below us. Along that side street came the German Minister on June 20, accompanied by his Secretary, and turned north on the street stretching away in front of us. Soon he was to be followed by the Ministers of the other Legations, on the way to the Tsungli Yamên or Foreign Office. The Minister and his Secretary were in their official chairs and had reached a point in the distance near where you see what seems to be a dark arch across the way. A narrow street extending from Von Ketteler Street toward the east at that point leads to the Tsung-li Yamên, as the map shows. On that street the Minister was attacked in his chair and killed.
The story of the murder of Baron von Ketteler and the wounding of his Secretary are too well known to need repetition. The wounded Secretary made his way to the American Mission, which lies to the west of the place of attack and in the vicinity of that small white tower which rises from among those trees quite beyond the larger building with the white roof; that is another way back to the Legations.
While we are looking along this important thoroughfare, allow me to locate certain places, some of which we may hereafter visit. Should we follow one of the first side streets leading to our right one mile we would reach the east wall of the Tartar City, at a point where the famous Observatory is located and which we will show you later; and near it is situated the Examination Hall. A short distance beyond the Tsung-li Yamên is the headquarters of the Inspector General of Customs, Sir Robert Hart. At the extreme end of this street and outside the wall is a great temple called Ti-tan, or Altar of Earth. It is over three miles distant and we can see it looming up in the horizon. At the farther end of this street, slightly to the right, we shall visit later the great Lama Temple. Those two temples stand near the northern limit of the Tartar City; but there are remains of an ancient wall two miles beyond that, which was the northern limit of the capital of the Mongol Dynasty. Observe the level character of the site of this great city, how great the distances and how the whole area is interspersed with trees. In many parts of both the Tartar and the Chinese City there are large tracts quite vacant. It is verily a city of great walls and great distances, and, I might add, of great filth and great cowards. In the dry season the main streets are ankle deep with fine dust, and when carts or caravans pass along, it rises and floats in great clouds, covering everything and infiltrating everywhere. Observe, also, how the side of the street is lined with booths, where all kinds of wares are sold. After the city was occupied by the Allies, the last two miles of this great street was one of the greatest loot-marts in the city: mats and cloths were spread out on the sides of the street and articles for sale were laid thereon, and in that way the place became a wilderness of all sorts of things, and the haunt of curio hunters.
We shall now turn away from this view northward along Von Ketteler Street and proceed along the top of the wall westward to a point nearly opposite the British Legation.
Our position and field of vision is given on the map of Pekin by the two red lines which start from near the Water Gate in the wall between the Tartar and Chinese Cities, half a mile west of our previous positions, and extend to the north wall of the city. The number 71 is given at the beginning and at the ends of these lines.