33. The Picturesque Land of Confucius-Woo Men Bridge and Grand Imperial Canal, Soo-chow. No one could feel that he had seen China unless he had seen one of these characteristic bridges or a pagoda. Sometimes the former have been called camel's-back bridges, because of the sharp pitch of the approaches over the arch. The Chinese seem never to have taken to the swing-bridge to allow the passage of boats; and wheeled vehicles are so seldom used that they are not considered in bridge-building. This is a beautiful arch and built according to sound principles of architecture; but where did the Chinese get their knowledge of the arch? It is said that the arch originated with the Greeks and was developed by the Romans. Yet, in every part of China these perfectly arched bridges are found which, to all appearances, ante-date both the Roman and the Greek periods. This bridge has been erected since the Taiping Rebellion. The former structure was destroyed at that time, and the place we occupy was the scene of a bloody conflict; the forces under Gordon being on the farther side of the canal, and the rebels on this side under Burgovine with sixty foreigners and an army two hundred thousand strong. The center of this simple, graceful arch is over fifty feet above the water, and the quality of the masonry shows for itself. People are passing to and fro while some are seated on the side wall, showing that it is probably a rendezvous for loafers.
Near us, at the edge of the canal, we see women engaged, some in washing clothes, others in washing rice; all at the same place and in the same water. It is no uncommon thing to see water for cooking and drinking taken from sources impregnated with every form of pollution. Now that I have mentioned a point against the cleanliness of these women, let me call your attention to another matter in which they are more particular than other women of the same class. These are women of the lower class, poor, and engaged in manual drudgery, yet you will see their hair is carefully and neatly arranged. Chinese women are as careful to possess a tidy coiffure as the men are to maintain the integrity of their queues. Here again we see family boats, and it is estimated that there is a floating population in and around Soo-chow of thirty thousand. It is an important center for silk manufactures, and no fewer than one hundred thousand women are engaged in making embroidery. Many valuable cargoes of silk are carried in the small boats such as you see; notice the one before us, near the bridge at the right with a cannon mounted on the bow. This is a protection against pirates and other robbers, especially when carrying valuable cargoes of silk.
You, of course, know that piracy was very common in many parts of the world in the earlier centuries, but that in modern times that form of robbery has ceased to exist in most countries except China, when primitive modes of water transportation, and, indeed, primitive conditions in all respects affords opportunity for the pirate to ply his nefarious occupation; so that on all the great rivers and canals where valuable cargoes pass to and fro a very poor and inefficient gun-boat service is maintained by the government, and besides this, as I have already shown you, cargo-boats have antiquated cannon mounted on them for defense as you see the one before us. The death penalty by beheading is inflicted on all pirates captured, and notwithstanding this extreme deterrent, the inland water-ways are still infested with these reckless robbers. The Execution Ground at Canton is one of the places visited by most travellers. Every few weeks executions by beheading occur at that place, and the victims are in most cases pirates. I witnessed and made views of the beheading of a pirate at Canton; as the scene is too revolting for general use it is not included in this series, but may be obtained from the publishers.
I have said that in nearly every representation of a Chinese landscape one finds either a camel-back bridge or a pagoda; here we have seen the former; now, in order to see one of the most interesting of the latter, we will travel by boat for several miles, along winding, dark and narrow canals, through the city and beyond, to an elevation of ground called Tiger Hill. On this hill is located one of the oldest and most famous pagodas of Soo-chow, called Tiger Hill Pagoda.