50. Chinese Christian Refugees gathered by Father Quilloux into the Apostolic Mission during the Bombardment of Tien-tsin.
This church is situated on the boundary between the English and French Concessions, and escaped, in quite an extraordinary way, destruction from both fire and shell, although in the direct line of bombardment. It is a French Catholic Church and Mission, at the head of which is the Rev. C. M. Quilloux. Soon after my arrival in Tien-tsin I met this worthy father, who told me how large a flock he was sheltering and feeding in the basements and cellars of his church and other church buildings. I expressed a desire to obtain a stereograph of his multitudinous wards during such a crisis. He said if I would come on the following day, he would do what he could to induce his terrified flock to leave the cellars and come out into the court for a few minutes, but I must be in readiness to operate quickly and not expose them too long to the bursting shells. They were all notified to be in readiness at a given hour, and when I had taken my position, Father Quilloux and another father led the way out into the open yard, followed by this cowering host-men, women and children-young and old. Scarcely had they assembled when a shell burst overhead with the crash of a near thunderbolt; they ducked and trembled and began to show an agony of impatience, when Father Quilloux called out from his position in front: "Be quick! They are afraid!" The work was done hastily, and it did not seem that the whole time occupied could exceed three minutes, and yet three shells exploded very near during that brief space. You may notice all conditions of people in this gathering; on the left, near the front, are three small children carried in arms; further back, on the left, I see two gray heads; on the right, in front, some fairly pretty girls. I asked Father Quilloux to place the women in front, I suppose, because they are more picturesque. He told me he had great difficulty in finding sufficient food for so many people. They subsisted almost entirely on a small allowance of rice. Up to that time only a few had died. He pointed out to me a fresh grave, near us on the left, where on the previous day he had buried one of them. These were days that tried the faith and courage of men and these faithful fathers did not forsake their flocks.
What you have already seen must give you some intimation of the condition of Tien-tsin when I arrived. A hundred sights in Tien-tsin alone would give you a fuller conception, but even the greatest number could not tell vou all. It is impossible to picture the apprehension of faces on the street-the roar of bursting shells and deadly smaller missiles that filled the air. Subterranean housekeepers cannot be " sculptured by the sun " nor can pale, fear-stricken faces peering out of cellar windows;
nor the measured tread of soldiers at all hours of day and night; nor the thrilling bugle-calls in every direction. Just across the way, too, is a full hospital, and the stillness about it is solemn and awe-inspiring. These things cannot be portrayed by any cunning of the camera. The number of troops is daily increasing. The transportation of commissary stores for all the different troops fills the streets with every form of nondescript conveyance-army wagons, carts, rikishas," wheelbarrows, pole-coolies, confiscated carriages. A few European women were still left in the Concession. At one time, when the fire from the enemy was becoming stronger and the rout of the Allies was imminent, a weeping and disconsolate little English mother came running across the street to a near neighbor with this pitiful and tragic request: "Now, Mr. won't you promise to shoot my children if they get in?" "No, I'll be d―d if I will!" replied the neighbor. This horrible request was prompted by maternal love; its fulfillment would have been humane, in comparison with an assured butchery by the enemy; but, come what would, the manly neighbor could not, even in the name of humanity, promise to take the lives of sweet little children with whom he had been wont to play.
From here I went south again into the British Concession to the public water hydrant, where the soldiers of the Allies and the natives mingled. See the red lines connected with the number 51, a short distance to the left of our former position by the river (Stereograph 49).