74. The Bullet-scarred American Legation from Barricaded City Wall-Forbidden City and Coal Hill in Distance-Pekin.
There are some things in this part of the city which you will not, I am sure, fail to recognize; you see far away that land-mark previously mentioned, that Coal Hill on which the last of the Mings hanged himself, and which has become famous in tradition and in history. And you will verily not fail to recognize that ever-endeared emblem of liberty and of our country which floats out there over those trees and over China. Even the slow natives soon learned to know the import of the Stars and Stripes. To carry or display a flag was a claim to the protection of the nation to which the flag belonged. The American flag was in great demand; everything in the way of an American flag was bought or secured in some way, and when the supply was exhausted the Chinese mothers and daughters ransacked their homes for bits of red, of white and of blue which they speedily sewed into a funny semblance of the American flag. They had soon learned that the Americans treated them with more consideration and fair play than some other of the nations; and that the Stars and Stripes meant, even to them, liberty and protection.
The flag is over the entrance of the American Legation, on Legation Street. The large two-story structure is the main building. Dr. Lippert received a terrible wound standing by the side of that house. It is surrounded by low one-story buildings occupied by attachés of the Legation. First Secretary Squiers has quarters just beyond the trees to the right of the main building. Mr. Bainbridge, the Second Secretary, and Mrs. Bainbridge, occupied rooms on the second floor of the main building. A shell burst in those apartments. All the members of the Legation were finally obliged to seek shelter in the British Compound. You can readily see the exposed position of this Legation. It is scarcely more than a stone's-throw from the wall. How unaccountable that the Chinese did not at once gain this advantageous position! They undoubtedly thought that all those low buildings were filled with legation guards, and they are evidently not fond of taking great risks. The walls of the rooms of the Second Secretary on the west side of the building were pitted all over with rifle bullets. Some of the Chinese arsenals were stored with vast quantities of excellent bows and arrows. These could almost have been used effectively at this short range. In line with the Legation we can discern superstructures connected with the large gate which is the entrance to the Sacred City on the south. The gate at the left with the small flanking towers on either side is the main entrance. It is on a line southward from Coal Hill to the Chien Gate.
All these nearer Chinese houses are to be removed for the new Legations. Observe again how the guards have thrown up temporary defenses; this continues for a great distance, and the replacing of these bricks and the general restoration of this wall will involve much labor for the Pekinese brick-layer. The irregular nature of this barricade was necessary because the men were fired at from all directions. You also meet again my unfortunate one-eyed native, correctly typifying the national lifemeek, phlegmatic and immobile.
We have still an inadequate idea of the destruction wrought in the vicinity of the Legations by the Boxers. If we now go to the Chien Gate, to our left, and look toward the northeast over the territory lying to the west and north of the American Legation, we shall realize more fully the havoc done during the siege. On the map of Pekin find the Chien Gate, directly south of the Forbidden City. We are to see the section lying between the two red lines which branch toward the northeast, each having the number 75 at its end on the map margin.