26. The Dragon Guarding the Front of the Fukien Guild Hall, Ningpo.
This magnificent structure was first erected in the twelfth century by men from the Province of Fukien, which lies south of Chien Kiang, the province in which Ningpo is located. It was rebuilt in 1680, and one can scarcely believe from the bright new appearance of the carved columns that it has been standing as we now see it for over two hundred years. It has a large membership of wealthy men and is richly endowed. These Guild Halls in the Flowery Kingdom correspond to clubs in Western 1Ο1 countries; they are social and semi-commercial, being a meeting place for commercial and literary men and people of wealth and standing. The buildings cover an extensive area, arranged in different halls of one story with a courtyard in front of each. Merchants from the same province of Fukien have erected another beautiful Guild Hall at Canton at a cost of $120,000. In some of the halls a stage is erected for theatrical performances, and from a balcony members and their friends can enjoy the entertainments. In other halls shrines are dedicated to different so-called deities, such as the Queen of Heaven, the God of Learning, etc. This Fukien Guild Hall, or temple, is said to be dedicated to the Marine Goddess, Ma Tsupu. There is also in some part of the temple area an Ancestral Hall, in which tablets are erected in memory of departed members of the guild or club. The appearance of this place on festal occasions is animated and brilliant. Lanterns and scrolls are suspended from the ceilings on which curious characters and devices are written in gorgeous colors. The rich and elaborate magnificence of the carving on those columns you can observe from where we stand. Some of these columns, my guide told me, were executed in Amoy and others in Ningpo; they are monolithic and of fine gray granite. We have noticed from time to time on our journey the lack of architectural beauty and attractiveness in Chinese buildings. The Ancestral Hall in Canton was beautiful. In this clubhouse we have another evidence that the Chinese are not devoid of architectural art and taste. These columns would not disgrace the carver's cunning in any age or country. Just notice how delicate in every detail, how rich the designs and in what elaborate and bold relief are the figures on the columns of this porch.
The two national emblems are here brought before us so conspicuously and in such beautiful art that I must tell you something about them. I mean the dragon and the lion. What the lion and the unicorn are to England, and what the eagle is to America, the dragon and the lion are to China. They are the chief national emblems; you will see them everywhere in art and decoration. The dragon is the symbol on the Imperial flag; the lion is the guardian of every home, shop and temple. Every people must have a mythology; human nature takes to myth as to food; it seems almost an indispensable psychological aliment, and the people of the Middle Kingdom are no exception. The whole empire is filled with mysterious influences, which, of course, must be localized and symbolized. In Chinese mythology there is not one dragon, but many; there is the Celestial dragon which presides over the mansions of the gods; the divine dragon which causes the winds to blow. The Buddhists consider their dragons as numerous as the fish of the sea; but the fabulous dragon with scales and claws seems to be a sort of Jupiter or Odin in their polytheism; he performs many functions. He is represented as a flying Saurian, yet without wings; plainly a different species from the one encountered by St. George. He is always represented as a scaly five-clawed crocodile; he presides over the elements; he has power to become visible or invisible; in short, he is a factotum in their divinity business. He is the crest on royal monuments, is displayed on the Emperor's robes, and the Grand Chair of State is called the dragon throne.
Next in importance after the dragon is probably the lion. He figures conspicuously in porcelain, in bronze, in painting, in sculpture, in every form of decoration; he is conventionalized into many grotesque forms with feathery spreading tail and bulging eyes. You may see him carved in stone before every yamen and temple and official residence; at the shop doors in every street you will see him carved in wood and gilded. The lion, therefore, seems to be a one-headed Cerberus charged with the big task of guarding all the important doors of the Empire. Cerberus required three heads to guard the entrance to Hades, and two stern lions always guard important doorways in China. These guardian lions may be stone during the day, but they are good, vigilant, live lions during the night, so it is believed, and it is said they may be seen roaming about at hours when children should be in doors. Recalling these things, we can better understand why the lion and dragon are in such high esteem and how they outrank all other divinities in the Chinese mythology. We should not fail to note carefully the splendidly carved dragons on those graceful columns and the one of the two lions which guard the door of this matchless Guild Hall. Do not make a mistake and confound our guide who rests on the porch with the Cerberus on the pedestal, because they are both lions on this occasion.
Before returning to the ship which takes us back to Shanghai, we will enter one hall of a Buddhistic temple to look for a few moments at some gigantic statues of Buddha.