76. Busy Markets in Chinese (Southern) Pekin—On Kaiser or Chien-men Street, between South Gate and Chien-men (gate), Pekin.
We looked down into Von Ketteler Street from the Ha-ta Gate (Stereograph No. 70); now we are in Chienmen Street, or, as the Germans call it, Kaiser Street, and there are other places with Teutonic cognomens, until it almost looks as though Germany was going to extort a namesake indemnity from poor "John."
This street extends from the extreme southern gate of the Chinese City to the gate of the Imperial City. We are looking northeast again. (On the map see the red lines connected with number 76, south of the Chien Gate.) The scene before us is typical of this busy street. It is all trade and no recreation; there are stands for the sale of all sorts of queer comestibles quite beyond the comprehension of Western cooks. It seems to be an out-door restaurant along the entire street; there are buckets, tubs, pots and pans, baskets containing rice, vessels containing fruit which I recognize to be a fine large species of the persimmon. I see bakers and what appears to be flour on some tables; if flour it is rice flour, which is in general use for many purposes. The people here all appear dirty and ragged, and so they are; they are all of the lower class the unwashed and unkempt horde. You may notice they are clad in warm garments, in quilted coats, and all wearing shoes and stockings. Winter is coming on; it is November and the winds are sharp and a thin ice coats the pools. The climate in Pekin corresponds with that of New York. Out there in the street is the everpresent wheelbarrow. On the other side of the street are crowds lingering by stands of haberdashery, and, indeed, stands for the sale of all conceivable commodities from junk to jade and other gems. We see some pieces of matting not yet unrolled; this will be spread out in the sand and dust, and articles for sale placed upon it. The opposite side of this street, like Von Ketteler Street, to which I have already referred, has been a mart for the sale of loot. It is seldom that one does not see something inviting where eatables are for sale, but in China never, barring, possibly, natural fruits. Here we fail to see such things as desiccated rats and boiled bugs; but if they are not here they are elsewhere for sale in the Empire; for I have bought the former in the markets of Canton and eaten the latter in the same place, although only in a tentative sort of a way.
There is a disappointing similarity in the appearance of the people in all parts of China; they are said to be much larger and stronger in the north, and I presume they are in the average; but the difference is not very marked. In the groups we have seen in the south and in the north I scarcely think you have noticed a great difference; probably you will say that they seem darker in complexion among the lower classes in the north, and I think they are.
Only a few miles behind us is a branch of the Young Men's Christian Association. No more commendable example of applied Christianity could be found. On the map see the two red lines connected with the number 77, in the center of the Chinese City.