23. At the Steamer Landing, Ningpo.
We have left the steamer and have taken our position on a street leading from the landing to the city. We are looking eastward down the Ningpo River, up which we have just come. Close to us is a crowd of coolies and the merchandise to be put on board for Shanghai. By descending the river and continuing directly eastward for ninety-five miles we would arrive at Chusan, in the group of islands of the same name. We have here again the same busy scene to be witnessed at every port in China, the ever-present, burden-bearing coolie who, in his own country, bids defiance to every form of labor-saving machine. He is a labor-machine himself-willing, patient, full of endurance and contentment on ten cents a day, and such a thing as a strike has never dawned on his ox-like willingness to do an ox's work. His labor has been of great value to his country and to the world; but who has ever thought of erecting a monument in recognition of the world's indebtedness to the poor coolie. You may notice how he often folds his queue about his head to be less inconvenient. We are seeing this place on the last day of April; by the shadows you know the sun is shining; by the umbrellas you know it is warm. For greater comfort some of the coolies, like the Russian peasants, are wearing their shirts outside their trousers, and I am not sure but it is the proper way. One or two women may be seen in this crowd. I imagine some of these bales contain charcoal, as large quantities of it are shipped to Shanghai; we can see junks in the river; Ningpo is an important place for junk-building. We can see European houses in the distance by the river. Ningpo was taken by the British in 1841, and is now a treaty port. It is encompassed by a wall twenty-five feet in height and contains a population of about 250,000. The Chinese consider Ningpo as one of the finest cities in the Empire; but to Europeans it is difficult to find much that may be considered fine; the streets are narrow and dirty, and it is intersected by numerous canals which are not by any means Venetian in general effect. And, as in all cities in China, everything is out of repair; there are no signs of progress; no new buildings or bridges; everything is old; everything is dilapidated; everywhere there is dirt and disorder. Pope makes order "Heaven's first law,' but it is surely the tail-end of the Chinese code.
Let us find some one among those natives to guide us into the city. After a half hour's walk we shall find a position on the upper floor of a native shop, from which we can overlook a long bridge of boats.