19. Looking across Nankin Road to a Native Teahouse, Shanghai.
We can readily see we are still on the wide and wellkept street of the European quarter, but the building opposite is Chinese except the upper half-roof, which is covered with corrugated iron, an entirely foreign product. It is a matter of commercial interest to see into what general use this corrugated iron has come, not only in the coast towns in China, but in our newly acquired islands in the East, where it constitutes a large part of the building material; indeed, in Manila, I decided on different occasions that it was useless to make panoramic views looking over central portions of the city because it was one monotonous characterless glare of corrugated iron. The universal Chinese roofing is the dingy tile. It is the upper part of the building across the way which is the tea-house. The ground floor is occupied by different shops with their fronts widely open to the street, and the native proprietors are standing in the doorway to see what is attracting the attention of those outside. You will note that most of the persons in this gathering are of the better class-merchants, clerks, servants many of them wearing caps which generally indicates a rank above the coolie, who is the most menial type of the East. A few have come out upon the balcony to witness what is taking place on the street. Notice that the rail on that balcony has turned balusters, which tells us that they use the lathe. Notice, too, that there is some elaborate carving in wood on the panels of the wall.
The tea-house is a national institution in China; they are found in every city and town and village, and even in country places by the wayside, where they consist often of a shed or a simple shelter of thatch or matting. It may be said that they take the place of the beer saloon of the Western world. Comparisons may be odious, but in studying a people or a nation one is compelled to make them, and since reaching Shanghai most of the comparisons have been against the Chinaman; but in the matter of the respective national resorts, as the teahouse versus the beer-saloon, a comparison is scarcely admissible, because the frequenters of the tea-house are people of the highest respectability, and I cannot say so much in reference to patrons of the beer-saloon.
To see ourselves as others see us is a moral impossibility, and could we do so it would scarcely mend matters, as the ethical vision of the second person would probably be no better than that of the first; but it is curious to reflect on what would be the impressions of a Chinese gentleman who should for a first time pass through an American city or a single street of an average American town and examine the character of our national resort, the beer-saloon-what they drink and how they act therein, the numerical relation between the bakery and the beer-shop; the unaccountable antics and bestiality of alcoholic drunkenness; the suffering, the wretchedness, the crime, the starvation arising therefrom. He might at the same time see a frequenter of this national resort come staggering to the door and in drunken stupor and maudlin profanity point his finger of scorn at some poor humble, industrious tea-drinking Chinaman passing by. His first impression surely would be, "Is this Western civilization?"
I need not describe the beer-saloon; it is well known; but it will be interesting to inspect the tea-house. First, though, note the native policeman in regulation garb; his feet, his arms and his head are all in a position that clearly betrays a consciousness of authority over his fellows about him. Just at the right-hand side of that front we will enter and ascend to the room above, where we can see the interior of the Chinese national resort.