17. Looking South into the French Quarter and toward the Native City, Shanghai.
Now we have the river on our left. We are looking nearly south. The native city lies in the distance before us, and many hundred miles in that direction is Formosa and the Philippine Islands. A short distance in front of us we can see the place we have just come from.
That fine building on the right-hand side of the street is the Imperial Bank of China, and we looked from that dormer window in this direction toward the north. In that first outlook over the city we saw flag-poles; in this direction we see others. I think we can see the English flag on the first one and the French red, white and blue on the signal staff by the black ball.
I have alluded to the suitableness of Shanghai for a comparison between Chinese and European civilization; this comparison you could make better should I take you through the native city, for it is considered a typical Chinese city; but I am afraid you will have to judge in a measure from what you have seen of Canton and from what you will see later of other cities and be satisfied with this distant view of the native city. I entered it several times for the purpose or getting a representative view and as often returned in despair. There is no accessible point of elevation over the city for a panorama; there is no street with light and space enough to enable one to obtain a view. It is a wilderness of low, one-story buildings with weather-blackened tile roofs, surrounded by five miles of old crenulated brick wall, and is supposed to contain about a million inhabitants. Within it is traversed by lanes or streets which might better be termed fetid tunnels seething with filth and teeming with miserable and vicious-looking humanity. Odors are suffocating, and the eyes can find nothing attractive or beautiful to rest upon; squalor, indigence, misery, slush, stench, depravity, dilapidation, decay prevail everywhere. One almost fears to enter a place of so many repugnant scenes and hurries away after a brief glance. The saying that distance lends enchantment" will answer for the native city of Shanghai; therefore, you will, I hope, be satisfied to view the dim outline of it by those long, square structures near the white space far away and in line with that signal staff which bears the French flag and marks the beginning of the French quarter of the city. In greatest possible contrast there lies directly before us a continuation of the Bund in the European city, where all is bustle and activity; the streets are broad, well macadamized and lined with beautiful trees. The houses are surrounded by gardens filled with fragrant shrubs and flowers. The river before the native city is a chaos of junks and sampans; here, out in the stream are many fine coasting steamers from all ports of the Empire, and farther up you see lying at the wharf stately, modern steamers that ply on the Yang-tse or down the coast to Ningpo. The suburbs of European Shanghai are dotted with magnificent villas. Both banks of the Wusung are lined with factories and ship-yards. There are churches, libraries, theaters, clubs and race-courses; there are dances and dinner parties. All the comforts and luxuries of Western life are to be found side by side with what I have mentioned within the walls of the native city. The contrast is marvelous in our eyes. Yet stranger still is the fact that, though the Chinese note the contrast, they are, with few exceptions, happy in their own way. They live in the present, guided by the past; with them the present and the past are wedded, and a divorcement of the two is wonderfully slow. In this case a little leaven will scarcely "leaven the whole lump." It will require every influence for a great period of time; it will require the missionary seconded by the locomotive and possibly by "Krupps," and this for many generations. We can see the French settlement commencing at the signal-pole and continuing on to the wall of the native city, showing all the concomitants of Western progress. Just notice those jaunty wide-awake little steam launches by the landing-stages side by side with the sampans. There is a comparison by itself; you may notice at the same time that those sampans are quite dissimilar in model to those we saw in Canton. In this direction we see again the promenade along which pedestrians stroll to enjoy the river breeze in hot summer weather; and the same street life, the "rikishas," some scudding along with an occupant and others waiting in the shade of those trees; but here we also see the indispensable wheelbarrow doing transport service. Could you tell by those little docks or landing-steps that extend along the bank of the river as far as we can see that there is a tide at Shanghai? They are made for a rise and fall of several feet, and this is to accommodate the tides.
Do you remember that when we were at Hongkong I told you that a building for storing goods. is called a "godown" in the East? Up the river, in the French section by those white river-boats, you can see a range of large godowns. When I returned from the north of China I was obliged to store my luggage in those godowns until I had complied with the tedious Custom-house requirements. While looking in this direction permit me to remind you that in a few days we shall make a trip from Shanghai to Ningpo, and when we go we shall take that first large white steamer lying on the hither side of the godowns. Have you noticed another opium clipper in this outlook? If that great hull were filled with opium at ten dollars per pound, a moderate wholesale price, it would be worth a risky, piratical "hold-up."
We have obtained a general view of European Shanghai along the river-front; have looked toward the French settlement, in which the streets have French names. We have seen the American settlement, where the principal street is called Broadway and the leading hotel the Astor House; and now, as I promised to show you a street back from the river, a street in which, while in the European section, the shops and inhabitants are altogether Chinese, we will leave our elevated view-point over the Custom-house and enter Nankin Road, a cross-street which leads from the Bund through the heart of the English settlement.