73. Reminders of the Terrible Eight Weeks' Siege -Ruins of the French Legation on Legation Street, Pekin.
We are now looking west toward the bridge at which we stood to see the camel train. Ruins of the French Legation are nearest us on our right, and this shows us the woeful destruction of the more exposed quarters of the foreigners. Here the fire was as hot as anywhere. This corner was blown up by a mine, burying two Frenchmen and many Chinese. A cannon ball came through the wall of this Legation and carried off the head of Mr. Wagener, a gentleman in the customs service. On the paved street to our left a young Russian was killed; he had been drinking heavily and did not know the direction he was going. Just beyond the head of that ragged woman near us you can see a narrow depression in the road. That is the remnant of the trench dug by the Chinese across the road, and marks the place of their nearest barricade.
The destruction wrought by fire and shells has been largely obliterated; the débris has been removed. The street itself is restored almost to its original appearance. Of course some telegraph poles have hardly been brought back to the perpendicular; and some portions of the barricades remain. The lions before the door of the Legation seem to have been imbued with the alleged Boxer impenetrability, for there they stand, at least one of them, unscarred and as rampant as ever. These pitted walls tell of the risks and difficulties and the impossibility of a longer tenure of these buildings; notice also the scarred remnant of that tree by the telegraph post. The marks even show the direction of the bullets as coming directly from the locality of the Ha-ta Gate; and now we can understand why we saw no traces of bullets on walls facing the west, from our last position. We see only the entrance to the Legation; the buildings belonging to all the Legations are Chinese, and they are always back in the compound a short distance from the gate. As usual everything is inclosed in walls, and, as heretofore stated, the Chinese are a nation of wall-builders. Notice how the Legations have improved this street; it is macadamized and sewered and lined with lamp posts, although I see none here. This is the way to the Tsung-li Yamên; this is the street along which all the Ministers are carried in their official chairs to the Chinese Foreign Office.
There is a ragged and miserable looking beggar woman before us. I told my porter, who stands there by the telegraph pole, to ask this poor woman to stand a moment till I made a picture of the street; her poverty was greater than her prejudice against the photographic thing of evil, and she stood and earned her alms.
The great south wall of the Tartar City, upon which we have stood several times, is only a short distance to our left. We must ascend it again and pass along its top toward the west and past the place from which we looked down to the British Legation, to a point in the rear of the American Legation. On the map our position and field of vision is given more definitely by the two red lines. which start at the wall just west of the Water Gate and reach beyond the northern city wall. The number 74 is found near the starting point of these lines and at their ends.