51. Strange Medley from many Nations at the Public Water Hydrant during Foreign Occupation of Tien-tsin.
Water is forced from the Pei-ho to the settlement by a steam-pump on the bank of the river. The demand for water was so great that these hydrants were opened only twice a day; at such times all the nations were represented by water-carriers with all sorts of vessels, and here we see them at the hydrant waiting their turns. Not all the nations are represented here; but I can make out four; the Russians, being encamped on the other side of the river, are not to be seen; it also happens at this moment that no English soldiers are present, except the Indians, who are under the English. We see the turbaned Hindoos in goodly numbers. They have newly arrived and are quartered a short distance up that street where the British marines were previously quartered; hence the presence of Hindoos and the absence of the English. Those Indians are fine, large men, and their moral and military bearing is highly commendable; they are accustomed to carry water in skins, which are included in their camp outfit in their own country; these skins, filled with water, are carried on the backs of donkeys. Two American soldiers are in charge of the hydrant. To facilitate the supply, there is a hose on one side and a stop-cock on the other, one man to attend to each. There is a cart with a copper boiler in it, probably found in some native house. The coolies have a tub, and there are two five-gallon kerosene oil-cans near the little smart Jap with his clean, white suit.
This street, a little beyond the farthest point in sight, was crossed by a breastwork composed of bags of rice; just before us it was defended by the ancient cheval-defrise. Those low buildings on the right were pierced by several shells. They are cooking-houses and sleepingplaces for the servants of well-to-do English families living in adjoining houses facing on a street called Victoria Terrace; but the occupants had fled, leaving the houses in care of a gentleman, who gave me permission to occupy one of the them. Before this time I had taken shelter, as before stated, in a vacated room of a Chinese home, but after three nights my room was claimed by officers of the United States Marines, when I removed to one of those houses opposite us. Here I lodged for two nights, when I was again compelled to give up my extemporized dormitory on a sofa to other officers. The Ninth United States Infantry had arrived from the Philippines and every available house was commandeered. One of the shells which passed through that wall by the trees, on the right-hand side of this street, exploded in passing through the wall and the fragments entered the room I occupied and lodged in the back of a fine piano; but each night I took the precaution to haul the sofa on which I slept behind some interior wall. These houses were of brick, and one wall of brick was sufficient to explode a shell and a second would stop the fragments; but those failing to explode would pass through several brick walls. The bombardment was intermittent; sometimes for a half-day scarcely a shot would be fired; then it would be resumed again, possibly at midnight, or at some hour in the night. When awakened by the explosion of a shell further sleep was impossible. The few people left in the settlement were worn out by broken sleep and apprehension. Those not experienced in conditions of war, and especially of bombardment, cannot possibly imagine the startling effect of bursting shells. During one afternoon, when firing was unusually severe, three shells struck within the same number of minutes; one tearing through the walls of the City Hall and two others bursting within the barracks of the United States Marines, but doing little damage. A little later, on the same afternoon, a shell entered the quarters of the British Marines, adjacent to the United States Marines, killing one and wounding two.
Let us advance up this street about one hundred yards, swing to the right another hundred yards, and ascend to the roof of a building known as the German Club Rooms. There we shall obtain panoramic views looking in three directions.
On the map we find the six red lines which mark the limits of our vision in these three views starting from the eastern side of the English Concession, one block from the river, and branching toward the west and northwest. Note now the second and fifth lines from the bottom, each having the number 52 at its end. We are to look first over the territory between those two lines. Before we take this position, however, we should get in mind the positions of the Chinese troops, the Allied forces and the general plan of operations. For several weeks the Boxer and Imperial troops, located mainly within the walled Native City, have been shelling most of the territory included within the Foreign Concessions. Again and again the Chinese had made sharp attacks upon the Allied troops, especially in their efforts to gain control of the railroad station. All their efforts met with repulse, but many lives were lost on both sides. Guns from the ships of the Allies had been placed at different points commanding the enemy in the Native City. Most of them were along the earth wall on the south side of the British Concession. For several days hundreds of shells had been hurled into the walled city and the smoke from burning buildings showed the effectiveness of their work. One particular point upon which the guns had been trained was the South Gate, in the center of the south wall of the Native City, as we find by the map. And now, on the day we are to look over this field, the Allies had arranged for a concerted attack. The Russians and Austrians were to approach the Native City from the east, but the others were to advance from the south. Four days before, Monday, July 9, a force of Japanese, Russian and British soldiers had captured the West Arsenal, see on the map about a mile south of the Native City, near the earth wall. The way was thus open for a much nearer approach from the south. On the morning of the 13th the Allies had advanced to positions from one-quarter to one-half a mile from the southern wall. The American Marines were on the extreme left near the southwest corner of the walled city; next, on the right, were the Welsh Fusiliers; then come the Japanese deployed on either side of the road to the South Gate, then the British Marines, and farthest to the right, near the river, the Eighth United States Infantry.
Let us climb now to our lookout point on the German Club building, to look over the territory lying between the two red lines having the number 52 at their ends.