97. Minister Conger leaving the Legation in His Official Chair, which is always used in making Official Calls, Pekin.
At the Legation Minister Conger kindly consented to allow me to make a picture of himself and his secretaries in the Legation rooms. It was during this sitting that our popular Minister spoke of going out in his official chair, when it occurred to me that to see him leaving the grounds would be interesting, as showing the formalities which must be observed at the Court of Pekin. It brings to mind also, that among the many different branches of the government organization, there is a ceremonial court whose duty it is to regulate forms to be observed and in marshaling visitors according to their proper ranks, and directing them when to make the "Kowtow." The kowtow is a formal bowing or kneeling and has many variations or degrees according to the rank before whom made; before the Emperor a kowtow consists in kneeling three times and knocking the head on the floor nine times. The refusal to comply with this formality on the part of foreign officials, has, at times in the past, led to international friction. Foreigners are not unwilling to make their rounds in a sedan-chair, but they do not take to the requirements of kneeling and whacking their heads on the floor.
These chair-bearers have been waiting for some time in the court of the Legation. They are dressed in distinctive garb of red and white, with regulation hats. An avantcourier stands at one side with an air of superiority, and it is his duty to howl commands for all to clear the way for the important occupant of the chair. The highest dignitaries are carried by eight bearers, others by four, and ordinary mortals by two. There are two kinds of sedan-chairs, those made of bamboo for common people, and those elaborately curtained and upholstered. Ordinary persons are forbidden to use the latter; only those holding some rank are allowed to use them. In the cities chair-bearers are organized into guilds, and their establishments are the livery-stables of the country. In some places the chair-bearers are nicknamed mo-mi-ma, i. e., tailless horses.
While the sedan-chair is a very primitive conveyance, every one must confess it is one of the most luxurious, and reminds the rider how well adjusted with springs is the "tailless horse." When a set of chair-bearers are passing through the narrow streets of a city like Canton they keep up a dismal howl that reminds one of the approach of a band of howling monkeys in the jungles of the Amazon; this notifies the crowds in the street to clear the way, but the warning is so common that it is seldom heeded. The chair has the right of way, and when people are struck by it they do not seem to mind it; their equanimity can scarcely be disturbed. In any other country the passage of a sedan-chair would, in a dense thoroughfare, engender endless broils and fisticuffs.
Mr. Conger is in the first chair, and his secretary is in the second. This official mode of travelling from place to place shows you exactly how Baron Von Ketteler was passing along the street which now bears his name, his secretary following, as Mr. Conger's secretary is following here, when foully murdered.
While Mr. Conger obligingly halted for a moment he told me that if I could get a stereograph of Prince Ching I would be scoring a great success. Now you may meet him whose picture Mr. Conger thought so desirable and so difficult to obtain.