32. Natives Fishing with Trained Cormorants in the Grand Canal, Soo-chow.
Before visiting China I had read of fishing being done in that far-away land by means of trained water birds, but it seemed almost incredible. When I was in Canton I received a letter from the house of Underwood & Underwood saying that if it were possible to find cormorant fishing in any part of the country I should not fail to make a view of it. I was told in Canton that such a thing could only be seen far in the interior and had almost despaired of finding any opportunity of photographing such a scene; but while being rowed along this canal one day I suddenly came upon these two boats covered with great, unfamiliar birds. At first I was quite bewildered by the strange spectacle. In a moment it occurred to me that it was cormorant fishing. I motioned my boatman to take me ashore that I might obtain the proper light and distance; but the fishermen with their educated birds made away from me as rapidly as possible. I told my native boy to offer them a dollar to stop; they rowed faster away. I told him to offer them a dollar and a half; the offer only served to increase their speed; they were thoroughly frightened. I was a foreigner carrying strange and suspicious devices that boded evil, as they thought. A Chinaman working near came to us and seeing apparently no ill designs in my movements, and being told I would give these men two dollars to be allowed to photograph their birds only, he started in pursuit of the fishermen along the bank of the canal. He finally overtook them, explained my object and the money offer, and at last, after long and tedious negotiations, prevailed upon them to return. They returned and received their fee, and I, in exchange, obtained the much-desired view of fishingcormorants. It is to be remembered that two dollars meant their earnings for twenty days, which would be equivalent to giving an American fisherman thirty dollars.
These birds are thoroughly tamed and wonderfully trained; they sit around on the sides of the boat and sometimes dive off after fish of their own accord; but are more frequently urged by gentle touches with those. poles. The fish are not usually seen from their perches on the boat, the water being often turbid; but they dive several feet under water and search for them. Strings or bands are put around their necks so that no fish large enough for cooking purposes can be swallowed. Fish passing through this gastronomic handicap the birds, of course, devour; those too large are brought to the surface, where the fishermen snatch them from their beaks and deposit them in the specially made fish-basket. Sometimes the fisherman, by way of encouragement, gives to his successful bird a small fish in exchange for a large one. Neck-bands are not always required; some birds are so well trained that they will deliver their prey without having any check put upon them. When several hundred are fishing together, the scene becomes very lively; but there is no confusion; each bird knows his own master. Sometimes when a large fish is taken one bird will go to the assistance of another, and the two together will bring the capture successfully to the boat. When not in service they are fed on bean-curds. They do not lay eggs until three years of age. The eggs are often hatched under hens, and the chickens are fed on eel's blood and hash. In some parts of the country cormorants are still trained in great numbers and are worth from five to eight dollars a pair. One boatman can oversee from twelve to fifteen birds. One of these boats came to the shore for me so I could make a close inspection of these intelligent creatures. They were very gentle and allowed me to stroke them as one would a kitten. They had a rank, fishy odor, however, which was quite disagreeable.
From this fishing-scene we will follow the Imperial Canal back to a picturesque bridge near the south wall of the city, where we will step ashore for a better view and where we can see the kinds of boats that ply along this great waterway.