22. A High-caste Lady's Dainty "Lily Feet," Showing Method of Deformity (Shoe Worn on Great Toe Only), Shanghai.
Here they are in every particular of repulsive malformation, and they are called "lily feet." What a slander on that floral gem! Much has been written about this strange custom of binding the feet, and many different ideas advanced as to its origin. Some Chinese tell us that it was a handicap placed on woman's gadding proclivities many centuries ago. Another tradition tells how a beautiful princess, having club feet, so skillfully concealed the fact that others imitated her methods and in this way her imitators brought about a fashion of binding the feet. I am more inclined to believe, however, that it is an innovation of fashion; that through all time small feet have been considered more comely than large feet; and fashion exaggerates every means to an end, and this custom has been exaggerated into a deformity in China. Western nations are not guiltless in this matter; corns and bunions and other feet ailments are often attributable to feet-binding by shoes which are too small. Any person who wears shoes a size or a half-size too small lives in a glass house and must not criticise foot-binding in China; it is therefore a matter of degree and not principle. The Chinese insist that tight lacing in Western countries is in worse taste and more injurious to health than feet-binding; that the waist is more vital than the feet, and that a slight compression of the former is more disastrous than even malformation of the latter. It is generally believed that feet-binding is only practiced by the upper classes, and that "lily feet" are a badge of refinement; later writers and travellers in China claim this is a mistake, and my own observations have been that it is practiced by all classes except the Manchus, though no doubt less by the lower class, who are obliged to work.
Doubtless you would like to know the process by which this deformity is accomplished. When the little miss has her muscles of locomotion fairly well developed, say at from five to eight years of age, pieces of cloth from two to three inches wide are wound tightly around the feet, commencing at the great toe and winding upward to and over the ankle; the toes are turned under, as you see them in this case; the heel is drawn toward the sole of the foot. until the two extremes are nearly in contact; other and stronger wrappings are added; occasionally the bandages are removed and readjusted; the circulation is sufficiently arrested to stop further growth and development. This process of binding is never abandoned even in adult life. Should the bandages be removed, an undesirable expansion will follow, but never to a normal condition. Disuse of the feet deteriorates the muscles of the legs, and the calves almost disappear; but this adds to the symmetry of the ideal female form which, according to the Chinese fancy, should taper gradually from the shoulders to the point of the little foot. These dainty feet are well nigh useless for pedestrian purposes, and impart a gait which one can imitate perfectly by trying to walk on the heels without touching the front part of the foot to the ground.
Possibly you would like to know how I succeeded in getting this view, since I have told you they are so seldom seen. You remember my old guide at the tea-house who squeezed the pigeon" when trying to find me a smallfooted subject. He promised to find for me a woman who would allow her feet to be photographed. I went with him to a native quarter of the city, where he said he had bargained with a pretty girl; because I, of course, stipulated that the face should be pretty as well as the feet, for art purposes. He took me by devious ways to an upper floor, where, after haggling with the inmates for a tedious length of time, he brought forth an unusually comely specimen who giggled after the fashion of girls the world over; but she had not been made to understand that her feet must be unbound, and when this was explained to her she fled precipitately, and no money consideration would tempt her to return. We left and tried another home in which the subjects offered were too ugly. for consideration. We tried a third house, to which we were followed by a wild gang of idlers, who wondered what the "fangwei" (foreign devil) was in search of. We entered a back yard where gates and doors had to be barred to keep out the crowd. Here, after much delay. and trouble, I secured a picture of an unsatisfactory specimen, for which I paid two dollars. Some time after this experience I engaged a Chinese waiter at the hotel to find a more suitable subject. After an extended search he found one girl, who, for a consideration of four Mexican dollars, would come to the hotel and unwrap her feet for the camera. She was poor, and four silver dollars was a tempting sum; necessity has no choice. She came, accompanied by her mother, underwent the humiliation, and the result is now before you for inspection. Long usage has taught them to look upon small feet as beautiful; but it is only when they are encased in dainty silken shoes that they are presentable. Their unwillingness to expose them shows a consciousness of their repulsive appearance when unbound. The small feet of the Chinese women are not so small as they appear to be; the sharp front part of the foot is wedged into the small shoe, while the heel is lifted up into the leg of the shoe, thus giving the appearance of a foot scarcely three inches long, when in reality it may be six or seven inches. I have occupied considerable space in telling you about feet-binding, because it is probably the most extraordinary of all Chinese customs.
You will remember that while viewing the city from an elevation I pointed out a large white steamer at the dock. We shall board that steamer in the evening, pay $7.50 for a first-class fare, and during the following forenoon shall be landed at Ningpo, which, as our map of eastern China shows, is about one hundred and fifty miles south of Shanghai.