30. "King of the Beggars" the Chief of a Beggar Guild–Vain of His Excessive Raggedness, Loong Wah.
On our arrival at Loong Wah, near the pagoda of the same name, which you see a few hundred feet before us, this "Jolly Old Beggar " marched directly into our presence with greasy, but by no means a starved-looking face, and asked for alms. We were at once struck by his extraordinary manner as well as by his extraordinary appearance; the first thing unusual in his manner was his smiling face and his cheerful willingness to stand before the camera. This he did just as you see him, and before receiving alms. This was done, too, before I had been made aware that he was a distinguished man, well known in his native village and in the country round; he is a royal personage, even a king in his class, and undoubtedly a possessor of considerable wealth. But surely neither his mien nor his garb betray his royalty; so I must explain it to you. Begging is a vocation in China, and beggary an institution. In every province there is an organized beggar's society or guild, in some provinces several. These guilds have presidents and sub-officials, and are in all respects thoroughly organized. There is a membership fee of about four dollars, and all members swear to abide by the rules and regulations of the society. The presidents, or "Kings," as they are generally called, are under the protection of a magistrate. The power of the head of a guild is considerable; and they are sometimes appointed watchmen over certain streets because their authority is greatly respected by the unscrupulous element of their own society. When a member dies the guild furnishes a two-dollar coffin for decent burial, and other members are required to attend the funeral; they maintain a lodging-house in which members are allowed to sleep at the rate of one cash (one-seventeenth of a cent) a night. In some towns the rich merchants furnish a dinner twice a year to the beggars on condition that they are not to be importuned by the guild for alms at other times. At certain times in the year all beggars worship at the graves of the brotherhood. Some of these guilds follow curious occupations, as at Fool Chow, where they engage in rearing snakes, which are sold to the medical fraternity, who boil them down for medicinal purposes. All beggars are not members of a guild; many are too poor and miserable to cope with the initiation fees; such beggars you saw at the "Dyingplace" in Canton. The many expedients to which beggars here resort to elicit sympathy and extort alms is an ethnological study. Sometimes they have been known to carry a most unsightly leper, on whom the progress of his incurable disease has sloughed off ears and nose and hands. This is done to compel the inmates of homes to bestow alms in order to rid themselves of a loathsome nuisance. Others cut themselves with razors and bespatter themselves with blood, taking care always to present the most bloody appearance with the least cutting possible. Another method is to stand on the street or by one's home and beat the head in a most ferocious manner with a stick. The beholder is expected to give a few cash rather than witness such scene. Others will wallop their heads against the house or any convenient wall for the same purpose. Sometimes they will drop on the doorstep and threaten to die there unless their distress is relieved. When I was in Canton visiting a great temple, a miserable wretch who had been awaiting my exit from one of the courts, staggered for some time and then fell prostrate on the flagstones, to all appearances suffering great agony and in a dying condition. My guide told me that it was all affected, but that I might better leave a little cash-balm for him, as we were in an evil crowd, in an unsafe quarter.
An expedient tried by some is to ignite a combustible substance on the tops of their heads, when they howl and writhe with pain and in that way prey upon the sympathy of the onlookers. Still another device which may always be seen in beggar thoroughfares, is to sit by the wayside and dash the forehead against a flat stone placed on the ground before them; this is done until there is an abrasion of the skin and the blood trickles copiously down the face. I have mentioned some of the mercenary self-tortures inflicted by the army of mendicants met everywhere in China, while the "King" is still waiting for his tribute money. You can see how thickly the rags. are laid on, stratum upon stratum; but you cannot see how dirty they are. Clean rags would not be in good form. Even his royal scepter, which you will notice is a piece of bamboo, is decorated with emblems of poverty. Baths and ablutions are unknown to his sovereign majesty, and an enumeration of the entomological attendants of this royal bundle would be as difficult as a census of the empire. I had the opportunity of meeting this "King of the Beggars" several times, but after I had bestowed a moderate fee for this pose, his Highness. did not deign to ask a second. Now let us "Chin-chin " (bye-bye) court fashion and return to Shanghai.
SOO-CHOW Eighty miles northwest of Shanghai, situated on the Grand Canal, is a city famous in Chinese history, but not so well known to the outside world. It was founded 500 B.C. and must have been in its palmiest days a veritable Oriental Venice, being still as of old, intersected by waterways in every direction. I refer to the city of Soo-chow (see map of Eastern China), to which the pet name Beautiful Soo" has been given, because of the many attractive features it possessed during its earlier days. The world is indebted to the scholarship and research of the Rev. Hampden C. Du Bose, D.D., for much information about this historic place. Dr. Du Bose has written a booklet called "Beautiful Soo," in which he gives information that could scarcely be found elsewhere. He says the Chinese have a proverb as follows: "Heaven is above-below is Soo-chow and Hangchow." Hangchow is a seaport city lying about ninety miles south of Soo-chow.
The Grand Canal at Soo-chow is connected with the Wusung at Shanghai by a branch canal, following the course of the Soo-chow creek. This waterway is well filled with all sorts of small craft plying between the two places, including steam-tugs towing native cargo and passenger-boats. The passenger accommodations are exceedingly primitive in the low, scow-like boats. One can barely stand erect in the shallow hold and must supply himself with food for the journey, if he cannot eat the native chow. Provided with a packet of luncheon and a shawl and blanket, which have been my shelter and my only companions in many lands, I plunged into an abysmal bunk and abode therein until the following day, when I was landed outside the old wall in a European concession, which has been granted in recent years.