65. Family of the Lower Class "Chowing" in Their Home, Partially Destroyed during the Siege, Tien-tsin.
Here, as usual, we find the house partially destroyed; but as the buildings are chiefly of clay and unburned brick, many of them furnished little fuel for the flames. and so escaped destruction. The inhabitants are now returning to reoccupy their old haunts when found habitable, and we find this family of the lower class "chowing "after their wonted fashion. Whether afraid of the camera or not, they are now under the Allies and necessity has no choice; they meekly do our bidding. The old woman" has a place at the end of the table. They are eating a regular meal; it is nondescript in the nature of its victuals. I cannot describe dishes that are altogether mystery; there is rice, of course, and something which I imagine has once been fish; there are vegetables in small pieces in liquid. There are no knives nor forks on the table, nor chairs around it, but of course we see the inevitable chop-sticks or "nimble lads," as their Chinese name implies. The name is appropriate,
for the dexterity with which the Chinese handle these little straight sticks is marvelous; they will pick up a single grain of rice between the ends of these sticks as readily as we could do it with a spoon.
Do not forget that we are here looking at a family of the lower class. Among the upper class a family at a meal would present a different appearance; there would be fine dress, fine furniture and fine food after its order. Judged by some writers, the Chinese have been placed next to the French as cooks, and particularly as culinary economists. Every Westerner is impressed by the simplicity of their food. Probably this denotes wisdom more than it does scarcity, for in Western lands also we often find the healthiest and most robust among the plain livers. In these days when the enlightened nations, so-called, are studying the best means of feeding the greatest number at the smallest cost, it is interesting to learn an undoubted fact that it is possible in China in ordinary times to furnish an abundance of food of wholesome quality at a cost of two cents a day for each adult person. Nor is this the minimum, for it is claimed by eminent authorities that during famines great numbers have been maintained on one and one-half cents a day. Before us is a family of six, and I doubt whether the daily expense of that family exceeds ten cents.
Before we leave them, have you noticed that they sit in the hottest midsummer sun, and, like all others among the lowly whom we have been studying, they are without head cover? Have you noticed the mottled scalp of the boy who sits with his back toward us? That appearance is very common among the poor; but whether from scalp disease or the encampments of insect colonies, I can only surmise. Some girls peered from small apertures in these lowly homes, and I tried to persuade them to join this "chowing" band; they tittered and withdrew, and I did not persist, as they would not have added much to the beauty of the six already before us. It is scarcely neces sary to suggest that there is probably no boastful rivalry between their wardrobe and their cupboard; but while we look upon their poverty and lowly home, we must not forget Gray's beautiful lines:
"Let not ambition mark their useful toil,
Their homely joys and destiny obscure."
In the course of our journeyings I have alluded before to the great amount of arable land occupied by graves. Assuming the population of China to be four hundred millions, and remembering that an equal number requires burial every forty or fifty years, or that the amount of productive land must be reduced every fifty years by the area of four hundred million graves, we can possibly understand how graves are interfering with agriculture and the food supply. Let us walk to the outskirts of the Native City just beyond the battle-field, where we can see how thickly the mounds of the dead are scattered over the plain. On the map the red lines branching toward the northeast from the number 66, a half-mile to the west of the Native City, shows our position.