78. Mei-shan (Coal Hill) within the Imperial City, north to Drum and Bell Towers-Ancestral Temples in Foreground, Pekin.
Coal Hill is the most elevated point in Pekin; it affords the best panoramic outlook. We are looking toward the north. Here again you learn that the general aspect changes little; the city spreads away over the same level plain; the street in the distance is broad; the houses are low and somewhat scattered, and the whole field of view is thickly interspersed with trees. The area of the city is not densely populated, as at Canton and many other cities in China; in the Chinese portion there are large areas almost without buildings except a few temples. The slopes of Coal Hill are quite heavily wooded; the higher points contain pavilions or summer-houses, and at the time of our visit the largest of these on the highest point was occupied by French soldiers. There are not many objects of special interest in this northern section of the city. Directly north, a little over a mile distant, you see what appears to be a huge gate rising from the street to a great height. It is known as the Drum-tower, because it contains a colossal drum which is beaten in times of alarm, and is also used to signalize the night watches. Two hundred yards beyond the Drum-tower is another somewhat similar structure called the Bell-tower, because it contains one of five great bells cast by Emperor Yung Lo in the early part of the fifteeenth century. These bells are said to weigh sixty tons each. The Chinaman's fondness for big things is not confined to great walls; he takes to big drums and big bells, and sometimes to very big "josses," in material concerns; but, worse than that, I fear he does not always scruple on big diplomatic fibs, nor is his commercial code always free from big "squeezes"; yet in this respect what nation shall cast the first stone"? The northern wall of the Imperial City lies one-half mile north of us, but it can scarcely be identified among the trees. The Mei-shan, or Coal Hill, on which we stand is also surrounded by a wall which we see among the trees at the foot of the hill. We may see among the trees an ornamental gateway, and near it a passage through the wall leading to those rather pretentious structures beyond. That large building with its several adjuncts is an ancestral hall. You have not forgotten the beautiful memorial hall of the Chun-Ka-Chie family at Canton. This is another of those sacred ancestral shrines, where family records are kept and where memorial tablets are erected, as was explained to you when we stood before the one at Canton. There are many beautiful architectural features to this family temple; there are richly carved marble rails and large figures of animals and birds in bronze. Says Du Bose, speaking of these ancestral halls: "Here sacrifices are made, incense is burned and prayers are offered. The following is the prayer of an emperor of the Ming dynasty to his ancestors:
"I think of you, my sovereign ancestors, whose glorious souls are in heaven. As from an overflowing fountain run the happy streams, such is the connection between you and your descendants. I, a distant descendant, having received the appointment from heaven, look back and offer this bright sacrifice to you, the honored ones from age to age, for hundreds and thousands and myriads of years. Now ye front us, O spirits, and now ye pass by us, ascending and descending unrestricted by conditions of space. Your souls are in heaven; your tablets are in that department. For myriads of years will your descendants think of you with filial thoughts unwearied.""
Behind us lies the Palace, and for our last panorama of Pekin let us look over the urban "Holy of Holies," or the Palace area. Turn again to the map and trace the two red lines which bound our field of vision, starting from Coal Hill and extending over the Forbidden City and the Chinese City. The number 79 is given at the beginning and ends of these lines.