98. Prince Ching, Commander of the City GuardSecret friend of the Legations during the Siege -later Peace Commissioner, Pekin.
There are not many men in the world who have earned a wider celebrity than this member of the ruling dynasty. Another prince has earned for himself an infamy as world-wide as this man's fame; I refer to Prince Tuan who was the head and inspiration of the Boxer horde, and who is now likely to reap the fate which due retribution will probably mete to him, that is, banishment or some other extreme penalty. Prince Ching, who sits before us, has always been favorably disposed toward foreigners, and at the crucial moment, when the fate of the Legations and all the foreigners in Pekin was in the hands of the shuffling Yamên, he did not hesitate to admit that he had failed to convince the court of the danger of inactivity and that he was helplesss in adjusting matters. When Sir Claude Macdonald found it was useless to discuss matters longer with the vacillating Yamên he demanded an interview with Prince Ching, who stated to him frankly that the government was not able to control the Boxers, and that foreigners could not expect protection either in Pekin or in any part of China. Prince Ching was President of the Tsung-li Yamên, and for his suspected sympathy with the foreigners was suddenly removed from the head of the Yamên by the Empress, and the Boxer chief, Prince Tuan, appointed in his place. There can be little doubt that only for these frank and friendly avowals of Prince Ching the Legations and all the Europeans would have attempted to obey the order which they had received to quit the capital and proceed to Tien-tsin; and this step, in the minds of everyone, would have resulted in indiscriminate slaughter. Can we wonder then that there exists a kindly feeling toward this true prince, or that when peace commissioners were to be chosen from among the Chinese to confer with the foreign ministers in the settlement of the great question between the Empire and the Allies, that Prince Ching should be the choice of the nations whose representatives he had saved? He has held many important positions besides being the head of the Foreign Office. In 1885 he was appointed along with Prince Chun and Li Hung Chang to take control of naval affairs, and now he has been coupled with China's famous statesman and viceroy in the adjudication of the Empire's imbroglio with the world. He is a near relative of the Emperor, and has now been mentioned as a possible successor to Li Hung Chang as Secretary of State and Viceroy; being so important a personage in the affairs of China and the world you can understand why our minister told me if I could secure his photograph I would "score a success." Along with an irrepressible New York correspondent who had secured credentials to Prince Ching from the Secretary of Li Hung Chang, and, couriered through the ramshackle wilderness of the Tartar City by a native "boy," I reached the palace of Prince Ching in the extreme northwestern portion of the city. See number 35 in black on Pekin map. Like all Chinese palaces it is a series of courts flanked by low buildings on every side. In an alley outside we were met by the official interpreter for the Prince, who explained to us that in a short time his excellency would receive us; finally we were taken to this interior court, where the Prince soon appeared and greeted us kindly. The interpreter had, of course, already explained to him that we desired his photograph for the American people, who looked upon him as their friend. His manner is grave and dignified, but with no sign of official dignity. As you can see he is of medium stature and apparently about seventy years of age. His garments are of heavy brocaded silk; the ample sleeves take the place of gloves; a magnificent ruby within a circle of pearls ornaments the front of his cap.
351 The correspondent asked for permission to speak with his excellency for a few minutes; this was readily granted, and the weather being chilly, we were asked to accompany him to a reception-room, where tea was at once served to us. I took along with me for his inspection a series of stereoscopic photographs, that he might understand the kind of picture I wished to make of him. The interpreter had, meanwhile, intimated to the Prince something about the photographs I had brought to show him. He seemed almost impatient to get hold of the stereoscope and stereographs, but the correspondent had him immeshed in his catechism for a time. At length he again glanced inquisitively toward the stereoscope, when I advanced and adjusted it to his eyes and passed a number of stereographs through it. He was visibly impressed. with the realistic effect; they were the first stereoscopic photographs he had ever seen; he never wearied and scarcely withdrew his head from the hood of the stereoscope till all the views had been passed through. He scrutinized the stereoscope to ascertain where the remarkable effect came from. I asked the interpreter to tell him that his own photograph in this form with the instrument would be sent to him.
While we were yet sipping our delicious tea I asked the interpreter if his excellency would not permit us to carry back to America as souvenirs of the honor he had conferred upon us, the cups from which we were drinking the tea. He smiled benignantly and ordered the servant to bring two better cups. More delicate specimens were soon forthcoming, into which we poured the remainder of our tea that we might say we had drunk tea from them with Prince Ching. The Prince said he had not had his photograph taken for eight years previous to this time, when a Dutch painter made of him an oil-portrait, which he took from the wall to show us.
After thanking him suitably for his hospitality and the patient audience and sitting he had given us, we retired to the alley whence we entered, and where the interpreter was joined by three members of the Tsung-li Yamên, whom you will be interested in meeting now.