34. Tiger Hill Pagoda, the “Leaning Tower" of Soochow (1300 Years Old).
There are seven pagodas in and around this ancient literary and commercial center. They are all old by Western chronology, all patriarchal, but the senior member of the group, the Methuselah, as Du Bose calls it, is said to be 1,650 years old; and the authority for this antiquity is Fan Fen Chen Kung, a historian who lived nine hundred years ago, who probably had reliable documents for his statements. The one before us is no youth, having been erected thirteen hundred years ago. You cannot wonder it is somewhat stooped, and you see why it is called the "Leaning Tower of Soo-chow." If the record of its antiquity be correct, and we have no reason to doubt it, it stood here when Mahomet was writing the Koran. It is called Tiger Hill Pagoda, from a tradition that after the death of Hoh Lü, the first King of Soo-chow, a white tiger was seen crouching near his grave. This pagoda has been out of the perpendicular from time immemorial. The pagoda is a monument peculiar to China. Every race seems to possess the monument-building instinct; a prehistoric race in America built mounds; the Druids had their temples; we find the mysterious round-tower in Ireland; Egypt has pyramids and obelisks. India, Ceylon and Burmah are covered with towers and dagobas, and China is said to have two thousand pagodas. No town in China is considered complete without a pagoda. Some people think the native faith in the pagoda is diminishing, as a new one is rarely seen; this might be said of bridges, temples and nearly everything in China, because everything appears old; disrepair and dilapidation are not necessarily evidences of a waning faith in their national institutions.
The purpose of the pagoda is often not well understood. by foreigners; it is generally supposed to be altogether a religious monument. It seems to have had its origin in India, where it was wholly a religious temple dedicated to the worship of idols which were called pagods, hence the name, pagoda. In China the form of the structure gradually changed from that of a temple to the tall, manystoried tower, like the one before us. The purpose of the pagoda in China has been changed from that of a place set apart wholly for the worship of idols to that of a mixed order-that of a religious shrine, and also at the same time a temple of geomancy, if I may express it in that way. It is supposed to bring peace and the protection of Heaven, and to repress all evil influences that may be peculiar to the locality in which it is situated. Geomancy prevails everywhere in China, and geomancers are about as numerous as beggars and much more respected. I have been in quite a number of pagodas, in different parts of the country, and I do not remember that I have seen one containing idols or occupied by priests; but all apparently vacant and left to exert their influence on the surrounding country; this is why I prefer to call them temples of geomancy. A simple and more intelligible name would be "good-luck towers." Do not laugh at their credulity and simple faith in geomancy; there is not much difference after all; they erect a pagoda and we nail up a horseshoe.
This Leaning Tower" is an unusually large pagoda; it consists of two walls or a pagoda within a pagoda, each wall being six or seven feet in thickness. It does not appear so large because our position is several hundred yards away at the foot of the hill, which has an elevation of some fifty feet, the pagoda being nearly two hundred feet in height. I was obliged to retire to this distance to obtain a view of the entire structure, and even now the first story is not visible. This venerable old pile suffered more from the Taipings than from thirteen centuries of time. Formerly the hill was covered with fine temples and palaces before that rebellion, but since then the once magnificent center of "Beautiful Soo" has been a wilderness of ruins.
We will now return for a second time to Shanghai by the same kind of native canal-boat in which we came to Soo-chow. We cannot afford to remain long in one place; the Chinese Empire is a little world in itself, and much remains for us yet to explore.
JOURNEY UP THE YANG-TSE-KIANG.
People who visit China should not confine their field of observation to seaport towns, as is so frequently done by globe-trotters. It is desirable to reach the interior at some point. When I returned to Shanghai, from Soochow, I received a cablegram to proceed up the great Yang-tse-Kiang River to Hankow, a distance of six hundred miles (see map of eastern China). It proved a lucky cablegram for me; only for its receipt at that time I would have been hemmed in with the legations at Pekin. In that way my trip up the great river was fortunate as well as interesting. Hoping now that our mutual trip to the interior may be equally interesting, we will embark on one of those large side-wheel steamboats, such as that on which we made our trip to Ningpo. The fare is $32.50 for a return ticket. The accommodations are as comfortable as on a Hudson River steamer, and we shall reach Hankow in three days. The scenery en route is interesting, but somewhat monotonous; the valley of the Yang-tse-Kiang is a level plain with no great diversity in its appearance, and all Chinese towns are alike. One can see the hill region in many places, but it is far distant. The vast expanse of yellow water dotted with characteristic junks moves sullenly along at the rate of two and one-half miles an hour. Our fellow passengers are a few missionaries with their families who are on their way to the hill region to pass the hot summer months. Six or eight stops are made between Shanghai and Hankow, and then, at the end of three days, our boat makes fast to the hull of an old ship. Hulls of ships are used for docks and landing stages everywhere on the Yang-tse. We have arrived, and as we come on deck this is the scene that meets our eyes.