42. Cultivated Bamboo-A Plantation at Nankin.
I have already called your attention to rice as the most universal food product and the most useful cereal in the world. Now, I will ask you to consider, for a little while, another remarkable plant of the same family, but of a different species. The bamboo belongs to the grass family, and, because of its gigantic size, its great utility, its unsurpassed gracefulness and beauty, it has properly been called the "King of the Grasses." It may be ordinary and uninteresting to you, but it is an arboreal pet of mine, and you must pardon me if I dwell for a little upon it. The bamboo and I are old friends. I have learned to know something of its wonderful qualities. and uses, and among all plants which have reached the dignity of a tree, both for usefulness and for beauty, the bamboo is peerless. Many years ago I was engaged by the Wizard of Menlo Park to encircle the globe and to ransack all tropical jungles in search of a superior fiber for the incandescent light. Equipped with a full set of implements for drawing out and carbonizing fibers, I spent a year among the bamboos of India, Ceylon, Burmah, Malay Peninsula, China and Japan. That was where and when my acquaintance with the "King of the Grasses" was formed and my pet-love begotten. I found about eighty different varieties in the island of Ceylon; about sixty scattered over Hindostan, between Cape Comorin and the Himalayan Range; something like eighty in Burmah and the Malayan Peninsula; nearly the same in China and Japan. You may see, therefore, I have had some opportunities to become familiar with the bamboo and can assure you familiarity, in this case, has not bred contempt. Those who have not seen the bamboo growing in its native climate can have no proper idea of its matchless grace and beauty.
A clump of this magnificent grass will spread out until it becomes a grove. The average bamboo is about fifty feet in height and five inches in diameter, although the largest species, the giant bamboo (bambusa gigantia), found in Burmah and Ceylon, sometimes reaches a height of one hundred and fifty feet with a diameter of ten to fourteen inches. In Ceylon I have seen clumps of over a hundred swaying gracefully in the breeze and towering skyward to a great height. The bamboos before us are not in clumps as they naturally grow. This is a plantation and not a native grove. The bamboo here is a small variety, not over two inches in diameter and twenty feet in height, but you see how straight and symmetrical the stalks are; how the whole stem is divided into joints or articulations, separated by an internode or knot; this is nature's ingenious way of giving great strength to a light and slender stalk. The septum, or partition at the joint, extends across the stalk and is impervious to air and water, so that each joint can be used as a receptacle for many purposes. For measures, from a gill to a gallon or several gallons, one has only to cut a joint of the right size and length. After the bamboo is a few years old it blooms and dies like other grasses. The rapidity of its growth is almost incredible; sometimes three and four inches in a single day. It is said that its growth is complete in one year; in confirmation of this a tea-planter in Ceylon showed me a clump. which we estimated at fully seventy-five feet in height, the shoots of which were planted only eighteen months previous. Lateral branches spring out from the joints; but not until the stalk has reached its full height. This is another wonderful provision of nature, since, growing in close masses, lateral branches could not develop while a young shoot is growing upward among old stalks. When the tree grows older a curious liquid is secreted in those hollow joints, which forms an agreeable beverage. If this liquid is allowed to remain in the tree, it becomes a concrete substance called tabascheer, which is highly valued for its medicinal properties. This substance, after a time, loses its liquid nature and is found to contain silicious earth, which resists the impression of all acids and with alkalies becomes a transparent glass. Many bamboos absorb from the soil a large percentage of silica; hence the strong flinty nature of its fiber. I have frequently seen sparks fly from my ax while chopping them down. The Buddhist priests prepare a medicine from tabascheer, which cures everything, like most other medicines. The bamboo shoot comes from the ground much like that of the asparagus-the sprouts as thick as the full-grown tree; when six or eight inches above the ground it is edible and has many culinary uses; it is boiled as a vegetable; it is salted and eaten with rice; it makes an excellent pickle; it is also used for sweetmeats or preserves; a decoction made from the leaves is used for coughs. Space does not permit me to mention half of its medicinal properties. Being a grass, its leaves are an excellent fodder for cattle. It is recorded in Chinese history that its seeds have preserved the lives of thousands. There are millions of Oriental people whose houses are built altogether of it; vessels are fitted for sea, entirely of bamboo; ropes of all sizes are made from it; I have seen three-inch cables made of braided strands of bamboo. Masts of ships of five hundred tons are built up of many stalks bound together. Three or four sections of large bamboo make a superior catamaran, the joints being water-tight. In the Himalayan Mountains I have seen water conducted for many miles from springs and lakes to the plains below through bamboos used as pipes, the small end of one connecting with the large end of another, the joints or septa being removed. The roots are carved into fantastic images; the leaves are used for thatch; rain-coats are also made from them and sold at twenty cents each; the wood, when cut into splints, is sewed into window curtains and door screens and plaited into awnings; the shavings are used for filling pillows. Chairs, tables and mattresses, cooking utensils, umbrellas, fans, chop-sticks, bedsteads, agricultural implements, harness, fishing-tackle, baskets, traps of every sort, from the cricket trap to the tiger trap, are made of it. Two clumps of bamboo will furnish the entire material for a comfortable house in Southern China, at a cost of five dollars. The school-master makes his ferule of it; it is the universal instrument of punishment; it is the peace-maker in the family. I have heard an old Jersey woman threaten her recalcitrant progeny with a * quince sucker "; I have heard of a crispin government by the “slipper" and of the "birch" persuasive; but in China the "bamboo" is the universal court of appeal; indeed, it may be considered co-ordinate, in general legislation, with the legislative and executive powers of the empire. It is impossible to enumerate more than a fraction of the many uses of this royal reed; and those in this small plantation give little idea of the stately beauty of the Giant Bamboo, rising one hundred and fifty feet, a veritable arboreal monarch, overtopping all other trees. in the tropical world, and surpassing all others, both in majesty and utility. Our two dusky companions have listened patiently to my eulogy of their inanimate benefactors and I will not detain them nor you longer. We shall hasten to board a steamer for Shanghai, and on the following morning we are once more in the busy streets. of the European Settlement.
THE BOXER UPRISING: JOURNEY TO THE SEAT OF WAR.
Even before we set out on our itinerary at Hongkong, in January, a slight agitation in the political world was caused by the abdication of Emperor Kwangsu. Early in the following May an uprising in the northern provinces of Shansi and Pichili began to create alarm. Secret societies were organized, or rather, orders which had had a long previous existence were revived. Chief among these were the I-Ho-Chuan, or, "Fist of Righteous Harmony," and the Ta-Tao-Hui-" Sword Society." All members of these organizations became known as Boxers, which is a free interpretation of the literal"Fist of Righteous Harmony." And now we must change our field of observation from peaceful aspects of Chinese life to that latest Chinese crisis widely known as the Boxer uprising. During the time we have been up the Yang-tse many stirring events have transpired; seventy native Christians have been massacred at Paoting-fu. On May 29, 1900, the very day on which we started from Hankow in the house-boat, the Boxers attacked the railway station near Pekin and cut off communication with Tien-tsin and the outside world. The Ministers at Pekin had asked for a dispatch of guards,
177 and four hundred and fifty had arrived on the 4th of June. Boxers were reported marching on Pekin. On the 12th of June an additional international force, two thousand strong, had started from Tien-tsin under Admiral Seymour. This force was driven back with three hundred and twelve killed or wounded. Tien-tsin was surrounded by large numbers. The different nations were hurriedly preparing to dispatch ships and troops to the scene of action. These were the exciting messages on the lips of every one when we returned to Shanghai. Next, word came that the forts at Taku had been captured with a loss to the Chinese of four hundred, and of twenty-one to the fleet. I hurried to the post for mail and then to the Consulate, where I found awaiting me a dispatch directing me to proceed at once to Taku. I readily understood it was urgent to be at once at the front. I hastened to the different steamship offices, and, fortunately, found a boat which was to sail for Cheefoo on the following morning. Two and a half days was required to reach that port, which is only about twelve hours from Taku (see map of Eastern China, Map No. 2).
In the meantime, permit me to offer some opinions on this last demonstration of agitators in China. Notwithstanding all that has been said and written about Boxers and the Boxer movement, it is very difficult to determine the cause and object of this uprising. It is generally admitted, as I have elsewhere stated, that the Chinese are a docile and peace-loving people, and yet, social agitations are not infrequent, and the great Taiping Rebellion, in which over twenty million lives were sacrificed, occurred only forty years ago. An old proverb says: "Beware of the wrath of the patient man." The most peace-loving sometimes become rebellious, and when such is the case desperation marks the conflict. It will scarcely be denied that want sows the seeds of revolution and rebellion, and when the struggle for existence becomes general and prolonged, suffering humanity will organize into protective unions, or into I-HoChuan Societies. China's great fertility and her vast territorial area are sometimes insufficient for her teeming millions, especially in the North, where whole provinces are often famine-stricken by reason of flood or drought or pestilence. An empty stomach does not make for peace, either in the home or in the State. The Taiping Rebellion, the most bloody, disastrous and long-continued that has occurred in China in modern times, was inaugurated by a secret organization of insurrectionaries with the usual high-sounding name, Taipings, which signifies "grand peace," with the ostensible purpose of overthrowing the Manchu dynasty, whose corrupt and oppressive administration of affairs had exhausted the patience as well as the earnings of the people; in other words, it was hunger that brought about that bloody revolution. Want and peace cannot dwell together. A few years ago about ten millions are said to have died of starvation in the northern provinces bordering on the Hoang Ho, a river which has been called “China's Sorrow," because of the loss of life caused by flood, famine and pestilence. This same poverty-stricken region has been the nursery of Boxers. While, then, I regard stress. of environment as the primal cause of nearly all insurrectionary uprisings, the immediate causes often appear to be something quite different to the ignorant and unreasoning insurgent. The Boxer, in his struggle for existence, sees the cause in commercial encroachments; he sees the railway driving his wheelbarrow and carrypole out of business; he sees the steamboat supplanting the house-boat and the sampan; he sees the modern carriage and bicycle relegating the sedan chair; he sees all kinds of machinery interfering with his manual labor. His Confucian classics never taught him how it is possible for a missionary to do a benevolent work. He looks upon him as the emissary and forerunner of foreign commercialism. Altruism is not in the Confucian code. I believe that any of us with a mind cast in the same mould and with the same training for generations, would be little, if any, different. An illiterate and superstitious populace will never discover first causes; struggle and stress of circumstances, then, sets the Boxer to looking around for the immediate cause of his ill conditions; he may turn against the ruling dynasty, or against the introduction of railroads, or against coercive land-grabs, or against the beneficent hand which has come from distant lands to lift him into better conditions. Then there are Boxer leaders and Boxer followers-the more intelligent and the ignorant horde who will play the Boxer for plunder. But it is well to remind ourselves again that after all human nature is much the same the world over. When times are dull and distress prevails, a popular howl goes up against the government administration, or an army of malcontents marches on Washington, or a wailing and lamentation is heard about unrestricted immigration. Western countries are full of Boxers; but efficient military forces keep them in check. It has always been so, and will probably always remain so. Throughout all nature there must always be a certain amount of imperfection; the consequence is distress; the attempted remedy is I-Ho-Chuan Societies, under many different names. I use the words "must always be" advisedly; some I know will not agree with this; but I mean, of course, until the millennial days when the rose shall be thornless and the bee shall be without sting and when "the lamb and the lion shall lie down together." Until then human nature will continue to be human nature, or, in other words, there shall continue to be wars and rumors of wars," and Boxers of many sorts.
As I entered the harbor of Cheefoo (see map of Eastern China, Map No. 2) two grim men-of-war anchored in the offing emphasized the fact to me that I was nearing the theater of impending war. Two forts, one on either side of the city, bristling with heavy ordnance, command the harbor and the town. The guns of the warships and those of the forts were trained one on the other. Big guns are always grim visaged, but when loaded and trained on an enemy there is mortal gravity in their sullen muzzles. These forts are on high bluffs, one a mile east and the other about the same distance west of the city; with glasses all the movements of the men at the forts could be seen. A part of the time the guns were trained on the European settlement and at other times on the warships in the roadstead. On going ashore I found the Europeans in a state of nervous anxiety bordering on panic. Cheefoo is a large city, and while no overt acts of hostility had thus far occurred, large numbers of Boxers were reported to be in the vicinity, and the most trifling affair would be sufficient to turn the treacherous hordes of the city into a fiendish mob. The giant English cruiser "Terrible" lay at anchor a mile off shore, with her decks cleared for action and her monstrous black broadside grim with vengeful guns trained on the forts. Several hundred marines were held in readiness to land at the shortest notice. This gave a slight feeling of security; yet it was well known that the forts could lay waste the city in a few hours. We will ascend a hill overlooking the harbor, the settlement, and the native city. This eminence is sometimes called Consulate Hill, because several of the foreign consulates are located on it. On this hill also is the signal-station on which we take our stand.