82. Architectural Ideas of the Imperial ChineseBuilding in Second Court of the Forbidden City, Pekin.
Is not this disappointing? Certainly it is of exceeding interest; it is within the Forbidden City. That alone would give great interest to the scene, but it is one of the main buildings of the palace. That fact adds further to its interest, yet architecturally it is disappointing and far from being palatial in appearance. There is little of the imposing grandeur we expect to find surrounding royalty. We would not, of course, expect to find it comparable with imperial homes in European countries; but it does not compare with many palaces in other Oriental countries, nor other structures even in China, such as the Fukien Guild Hall at Ningpo, or the Ancestral Hall at Canton.
There is nothing to distinguish the building from any old temple, or tea-house, or Yamen, or private home of a mandarin; and we should scarcely expect anything different when we recollect that the Chinese are a people of a single idea-one idea in everything; more than one would denote progress, a lack of which is the distinguishing trait of the people one idea in art-and one in architecture. All buildings are on the same plan; a temple may be turned into a palace and vice versa, which is often done. Private houses, pavilions, shops, palaces, pai-lau, temples and even gateways embody but one architectural idea; hence in this sacred and long secluded sanctum of the imperial family you see only the same old rickety heaps of brick and tile. The Chinaman aims at perpetuity rather than progress, and who can say he has not succeeded? He and Time are old friends, and he regards progress as an upstart. We fail to find anything out of the usual in the buildings; we see some carved tablets on the pillars; we see weather-worn awnings over the doors. The roof tiling is of a superior quality. The court flagging is out of repair; but the bronze figures are beautiful; also the bronze cisterns and the urns or altars, all of which we are naturally disposed to credit to the bronze age of the Mings. Bronzes are cast at the present time, but it is unreasonable to suppose that inferior modern bronzes would be found in such a place.
To a certain extent we may say the Chinese ideas of architecture result more or less from their religious ideas. Spirits prevail everywhere and houses must be arranged so as to make it difficult for them to enter. As spirits go in a straight line, it is not wise to have buildings higher than the city wall, otherwise you might have undesirable visitants. So all buildings are one story. The mythical creatures in bronze or marble placed out by the entrance are supposed to have a real influence in keeping out evil spirits and preserving the peace of the household. Geomancers are a necessary part of the palace officials, and they keep the imperial household well stirred up lest the feng-shui should not be right. They also reap a silver harvest in the process.
That object resembling the common form of the American heating stove is the altar. On this incense and offerings are burned to the so-called divinities, or heroes who are liable to become divinities in time; but hero worship and pantheism in China is an infinity of idiocy more pitiable than interesting, and we pass it by and introduce you to a trio of celestial court flunkies. Those fellows are not simply posing for a picture, they are keeping a sharp surveillance over every movement of the photographer. I necessarily fell behind the party in making these stereographs, and these three linger to watch my movements in case I might carry off that cistern or pocket those birds. By their style of dress we see that two of them are somewhat important; those are caps of consequence; the feather behind is particularly consequential; besides, they are portly men, and obesity in this country usually keeps pace with functionary importance. Mandarins are generally fat men.
There is a Western clock at the farther end of the porch. It is not going, and one wonders whether it stopped at the time the imperial household fled.
We enter the building and see considerable furniture of fine workmanship, and some art treasures and bric-abrac not easily moved, most movable belongings having been looted or carried away in the hegira. We leave this hall on the opposite side, and, passing through another gate, and entering a third court, we take a similar position before another hall. See map.