77. Y. M. C. A. Rooms for Soldiers of the Allied Armies-formerly a Notorious Dive-on the Busiest Street of Pekin.
What a difference in the meaning of that sign to these thronging Orientals and to the soldiers passing up and down this street!
The beginning of the Spanish-American war aroused new interest in the American army and navy and recalled to the public mind the fact that while ample provision was made by the government for clothing, feeding and arming the American soldier and sailor, it could not provide through strictly military channels those mental, moral and social influences required for the best development of young manhood. Beginning three days after the first call for volunteers in 1898 down to the present, the one agency that has most diligently and systematically endeavored to supply these needs of the soldier and sailor has been the Young Men's Christian Association. In southern camps, under the sunny skies of Cuba, Porto Rico and the Philippines, or in frozen Alaska, the men in blue have found the Association anticipating their needs, and with wellequipped places of resort bountifully supplied with games, books, magazines, writing paper and other comforts, has made it possible for the soldier and sailor to keep in touch with civil life and remain good men as well as good fighters.
The Association's enterprise was shown by one of the secretaries representing the International Committee in New York, pushing to the front with one of the columns. which relieved the besieged legations here at Pekin. About the same time another secretary was detached from the force in the Philippine Islands, where a large work had been conducted since the American occupation and sent to organize the movement in China wherever American troops should be called. At Tien-tsin, Tongku and various less important stations this was done, the activity culminating in securing the building before us which had been a notorious gambling and opium den until closed by military authority. As soon as permission for its use was secured it was made the headquarters for a line of similar buildings in various parts of this city, differing from the others only in the fact that it was located so as to be accessible to the allied armies. Situated as it is in this Chinese City at the junction of the American, German and British camps, it was naturally more used by the troops of these armies than by the troops of other nations, but all were found in the building, and when games were unfamiliar or books and papers were found to be printed in an unknown tongue, or lectures, sermons and songs were unintelligible, the Sikh, Japanese, French or Italian could pen a message home on paper that bore the Association imprint and meet in fellowship in the lunch and coffee rooms which were powerful in restraining men from patronizing the dens of infamy with which every Oriental city is so well supplied.
Here again we have before us a typical crowd in this important Chien-men (great street). While the buildings are used for stores, still the most active merchandizing is carried on in the open air. Something much trafficked in here is Chinese coal, a mixture of coal dust and clay, and is sold in baskets. Shoes and other articles of clothing are bought and sold alongside the open air restaurants, where such toothsome dishes as grasshoppers, dog flesh and vegetable mixtures are served to the fastidious but hungry wayfarer who wishes to have some change from rice and tea diet.
Off to our right, or to the northeast, is the gate through which the American army entered the city. South of us lie the Temples of Heaven and Agriculture, which were the headquarters of the British and American forces during the winter of 1900 and 1901. Only a short distance west of us is the place of public execution, where two of the Boxer princes were executed among the other criminals during the occupancy of the Allies.
Now that we have seen Chien-men Street in the Chinese City and know how it appears, how low and mean-looking the buildings are, how ragged and miserable the common street sellers are, we shall follow this same street directly north to the Chien Gate again, thence we shall pass eastward a short distance along Legation Street, thence northward outside the wall of the Imperial City about half its length, until we reach a breach in the wall made by the Allies to facilitate transportation. This we enter and thereby conveniently gain access to Coal Hill, which we have already seen several times at a distance. It is about one hundred and fifty feet high, and from its summit we are to obtain fine prospects of the more important parts of the city.
We find the location of Coal Hill on the map practically in the center of the area inclosed by the Tartar City wall. It is also near the center of the Imperial City area, and just north of the Forbidden City. Trace out the two red lines which run north from Coal Hill, each having the number 78 at its end outside the plan of the Tartar City. Our next field of vision will be the territory between those lines.