96. Grand Porcelain Tower, One of the Splendid Buildings of the Imperial Summer Palace, near Pekin.
Here we obtain a good view of the great porcelain tower which overlooks the entire plain lying between us and Pekin. It is a vast creation of stone and tile and decorative work after the Chinese fashion. I entered and ascended to the top, expecting to find something to reveal its purpose; but found nothing to show that its use is for aught else than an observation tower. Indeed, there were many buildings about the grounds whose use could not be determined by their appearance; many of them, no doubt, the outcome of Imperial whims or fancies. Notwithstanding "the divinity that doth hedge a king," he is subject to human ambitions like other mortals. Royalty is certainly somewhat expensive! Here is a populous city, there is another at Yuen-Ming-Yuen, the Forbidden City is another and then the private palace outside the Forbidden City; all these exist to gratify the cruel and unscrupulous vanity of an old Manchu woman. Millions are starving, and the one arch-mischief-maker sports four palaces, and three of these are verily cities, and all, we may say, for her personal luxury. The pomp and the palaces, of course, help on the "divinity that doth hedge," etc., and if the suffering masses can be kept in ignorance the "divinity" can be maintained—millions upon millions for the maintenance of a Christian-killing Empress, while thousands upon thousands are starving in honest poverty. Look upon these multiplied palaces and palace luxuries and then witness the staring eyes of starvation in the "dying place" at Canton. It does not require the "hedging of divinity" to make an intelligent and democratic people love and honor a Washington, a Lincoln or a McKinley; and in this respect what is true of China may be true of all monarchical or monarch-supporting governments. Democracy elects fitness for sovereignty, but empires inherit the next in line-many times unfit to rule; then comes the necessity for hedging with divinity. We did not love dear "Old Abe” less because he was not housed in a congeries of palaces, or because his beloved personality was not "hedged" by lèse-majesté. But if we linger in this line of thought before this great porcelain tower we shall soon be calling it a tower of shame. At the right of the tower we can see the plain over which we must pass to reach Pekin; only for the hazy atmosphere we could faintly discern the outlines of the city thirteen miles away. Now let us climb down this steep hillside and wend our way back to the quaint old capital.
A few days after my return from this Summer Palace to Pekin, during a casual visit to the United States Legation, I found Minister Conger preparing to set out on an official visit in his official chair.