1. Britain's Rich Mart of the Orient-Hongkong from the Harbor.
We are on the upper deck of one of the many steamers that ride at anchor in the beautiful harbor of Hongkong, and there we see before us in the distance, at the base of that dark, green mountain side, the city of Victoria, generally called Hongkong, after the island on which it is situated. We are not, however, yet in China. We are looking southwest and the mainland lies on our right, distant only a mile or two, and which we shall soon see from the slope of the mountain in front of us. A little to the left of the highest point of that somber elevation floats the English flag, that grand old symbol of our fatherland, on which, you know, the sun never sets. Only a small portion of the island is within the range of our vision. To our left, the city skirts the base of the rugged mountain for several miles; and should we follow the winding and irregular coast line and complete a circuit of the island, it would require a journey of over thirty miles; and should we ascend that dark green slope by cable tramway or by winding shady path, a climb of two thousand feet would be rewarded by a panorama scarcely surpassed in the whole world. The summit of that mountain island is a maze of peaks and dells dotted everywhere with cozy villas of the wealthy who find there a cool and healthful retreat from the languishing summer heat of the city below.
But before giving further attention to this city, let us be sure we have a definite consciousness of our surroundings. in this part of the world. Remember we are looking somewhat south of west here. Then by reference to the maps we can see that the great mass of China lies off to our right, stretching away for over two thousand miles. Directly before us, six hundred miles distant, is French or Indo-China, and further in that direction is Siam and the Malay Peninsula, Singapore being nearly fifteen hundred miles away. Luzon, the northernmost of the Philippine Islands, lies over six hundred miles sharply to our left. Back of us is Formosa, about four hundred miles away, while Tokio, Japan, is one thousand miles beyond Formosa. San Francisco is nearly six thousand miles distant behind us and over our left shoulder. Now, with a clearer sense of our location in this part of the earth, we will give further attention to this place immediately before us.
Hongkong is a British crown colony and was a "voluntary" cession from China made sixty years ago, in settlement of trade difficulties between the two countries which had extended over a period of two hundred years. It is now the most important entrepot of the far East, with a native population of two hundred and fifty thousand and about twelve thousand Europeans.
That water front, which you see, is lined with commodious modern office buildings, granite quays and landing stages, around which queer native boats called sampans, manned by native women, ply their trade of carrying passengers from point to point.
In the center of our field of vision a distant mountain peeps over the shoulder of Victoria Peak. It is Mount Davis, nearly nine hundred feet high, and around its base is a Chinese cemetery. Between Mount Davis and the sea, on a gentle slope facing the northeast, thousands of little mounds, designated by simple board tablets, indicate the burial place of the victims of the bubonic plague which has prevailed for many years in this city. The cemetery is not an attractive resort. Neither the friends. of the victims buried there nor leisure strollers are ever seen near the silent hillside; there even the dead menace the lives of the living.
On the roof of this little house directly before us, in which John "makee washee, washee," we see squatted three coolies in the characteristic position of the lower classes, not only of China, but of many other Oriental countries. If the classification of men were made on the same plan as that of birds by ornithologists, these fellows would be styled perchers; for, whether eating, smoking, resting, or in social confab, they are always in this couchant and ungraceful pose.
We can see three large, new buildings on the quay, facing the harbor; the farthest of those buildings was a place of much importance during the Spanish-American war. It is the Cable building, and it was to that place that all war dispatches were brought for transmission after the cable was cut in the bay of Manila.
We shall go ashore in a sampan, most likely sculled by a Chinese mother with a babe tied at her back. We shall land near those same buildings and follow a well-paved street toward the mountain side. The second street we pass, Queen's Road, the chief thoroughfare, is almost impassable at times, so full is it with darting jinrikishas and sedan chairs, borne by chair coolies. We ascend the mountain slope along beautiful walks and through botanical gardens embowered in every species of tropical palm and tree-fern, and past well kept lawns studded with bright flower beds, until we have reached an elevation of nearly a thousand feet somewhat farther to the left than we can see, when we turn about and from our elevated viewpoint look back in this direction upon the busiest and most beautiful harbor of the Orient. This new position is given on the map of Hongkong and vicinity by the two red lines that branch north from the island, each having the number 2 at its end.