71. British Legation, Scene of Heroic Fortitude during the Terrible Siege,-from Barricaded City Wall-Pekin.
We are again looking northward from the top of the wall, and that large two-story building beyond the bridge is the most prominent building of the British Legation. It is surrounded by many one-story buildings, which do not show distinctly behind walls and surrounding trees. A wall incloses the compound on every side. That was the center of the besieged district. Probably never in history was the interest and anxiety of the entire civilized world so centered on one small spot as on that British Legation during the months of June and July of 1900. For sixty days four thousand human beings were penned within those narrow quarters, and not only living on limited food supplies, but under an incessant hail of cannon and rifle fire. Since this place before us is so full of history, episode and thrilling association, let us make a careful inspection of it from our commanding outlook. First note the fatal stupidity of the enemy in not gaining this position, from which, with the modern artillery in their possession, they could have swept the Legation with a plunging fire and annihilated the four thousand inmates in a few hours. I pointed out to you the eastern end of Legation Street from our last position; here again you may see it where it passes over that low arched bridge between us and the British Legation. The French and German Legations are a short distance toward the right from that bridge; the Russian and American are to the left. A canal at this time dry, passes beneath that bridge past the English Legation and on toward another bridge in the distance. It was on the second bridge that Professor James was killed as he was returning from doing what he could to find a place for the suffering native Christians. I have already mentioned that canal as issuing from the canal on the south side of the wall and passing beneath through a small barricaded opening known as the Water Gate, at which the English first entered. That now historic gate is almost below us, a little to the left, as you may see, by the course of the so-called canal. The main entrance to the English Legation is toward the canal at the beginning of the row of trees. Out of that entrance beneath those trees rushed the long-imprisoned, the longbesieged Ministers and missionaries to welcome their deliverers. Try to imagine the emotions of those people as they saw the brave American and English boys, covered with the grime and dust of a ten days' march in the hot sun, reach Legation Street at the bridge and turn toward them. Sixty days in hourly expectation of massacre, and now the space between them and the bridge filling up with serried lines of guns which means deliverance. Could there have been present some sort of a cardioscope, if I may coin a word, to register heart-beats and emotions, what a picture we would have had! Think of four thousand choking utterances of the greeting aforementioned: "I'm so glad to see you!" But we must be satisfied to merely look upon the place.
We have heard of the sinking and explosion of mines during the siege of the Legation; so I must point out the locality where they were sunk. The second bridge marks a street running parallel with Legation Street; following that street a short distance to the left to a point about in line with the conical hill in the distance, you will reach the entrance to the Imperial stables on this side of the street, and not a great distance from the rear portions of the Legation Compound. There shafts were sunk and a tunnel was under construction toward the Legation; with a little longer delay in the relief it would have been under the Legation, with such results as one may conceive. Give your attention next to that area of ground lying beyond the British Legation and extending to the street in the distance; it seems to be now mostly covered with trees because the important buildings standing there before the outbreak have been razed to the ground. It is the site of the famous Hanlin Yuen College, the great national school of the Empire in which all Chinese learning and literature were centered. The Classics of Confucius inscribed on tablets of marble were treasured there; these are gone; the twenty thousand volumes of precious literature are gone; and this venerable institution, founded a thousand years before the Christian era an alma mater from periods immemorial, is a heap of ruins below the level of those trees. The loss of thousands of volumes of ancient records recalls the destruction of the Alexandrian Library as an irreparable loss; not so many precious books, perhaps, yet the Hanlin College antedated the Alexandrian Library by nearly seven hundred years; but what do Boxers care for colleges or precious tomes of ancient literature!
I have already mentioned that sharp hill in the distance. We must give special attention to that place; it is historic; by its prominence it is a landmark in Pekin; in a little while we shall stand upon its summit and overlook the Sacred City. We shall see it from other standpoints, and so it will serve as a guide to us in the matter of position and direction over the wide-spread city. It is said to be artificial and to consist of coal, which can be used in case of siege; this is tradition, however, which is often no more than the gossip of history. The Chinese call it Mei-shan, which signifies Coal-hill. History relates the tragic death of Tsung Cheng, the last emperor of the Ming dynasty, who hanged himself on that hill when the victorious hordes of the Manchus entered the capital. Between us and Coal Hill I think you can discern the outline of the wall of the Imperial City. You can see this wall plainly at the farther end of this street. The Sacred or Forbidden City, surrounded also by a heavy wall in the form of a quadrangle, lies directly south of Coal Hill. During the siege the Chinese erected an emplacement on the wall of the Forbidden City at the end of this street on which was planted a cannon which gave the Legations the most trouble. It was not until the famous "Aunt Betsey" was found and put to use by an ingenious American that its fire could be stopped.
I should mention while we have this Legation before us that the artillery mounted on the wall of the Forbidden City was not the only artillery brought to bear on the inmates; guns were also mounted on the east wall off to our right, and toward the west near the Chien Gate.
Now look toward those trees, opposite the Legation, across the canal. Among those trees was the beautiful home of a Chinese prince who had always been friendly with the Europeans, and when the trying ordeal came he proved a prince indeed, turning over to the Legations the use of his home for the native Christian refugees, and delivering up for their use all foodstuffs in his possession. I had the pleasure of meeting and making the picture of this noble Chinaman while at the London Mission. I believe, however, he is prince by royal appointment and not by birth. He is a man of fine appearance, as princely in manner as he has proved himself generous at heart, and is known as Prince Su.
The Chinaman near us is a native Christian whose whole family was killed by the Boxers. He so despaired of his own life that he gave up hope, and once tried to commit suicide. He has only one eye, and is afraid perhaps he will lose that if he looked into a foreign camera.
This barricade was built by the Legation guards after driving back the Chinese by the concerted night sortie. This was the easterly barricade occupied by the American soldiers, who could, on the one hand, keep in check the Chinese at the Ha-ta Gate to our right, and on the other control somewhat the canal in front and assist in case the enemy tried to cross it.
Barricades such as these were thrown up at frequent intervals along the top of the wall in the rear of the Legations, as we have seen. The material was taken from the wall and shows you the kind and size of bricks of which it is built. I will now try to familiarize you with the aspect of Legation Street by asking you to go down to the left end of that bridge and mount to the roof of a small building and look to the right or eastward.
On the map we find our position and the direction in which we are to look by the two red lines which start on Legation Street, a short distance above the Water Gate, and extend toward the east. The left-hand line stops at Von Ketteler Street, the right-hand line reaches the map margin, and each has the number 72 at its end.