24. Bridge over the Fung Wha Branch of the Tang River, Showing Catholic Church, Ningpo.
This bridge is usually a great thoroughfare in Ningpo, especially on market days, when it is lined from end to end with sellers of all kinds of country produce, as well as manufactured goods. On such days it is next to impossible to pass over it, and ferrymen do a flourishing business, when this branch of the river is impeded by the multitude of small boats carrying passengers to and fro. The bridge is two hundred yards long and five broad, made of sixteen lighters chained together and covered with planks securely lashed, the whole line of boats being held by anchors. This is plainly not a market day from the small line of people on the bridge. It was while making this view that I espied a woman crossing with hair coiffured in a most unusual and fantastic style. I dispatched my native guide in great haste to intercept her and negotiate a pose, but all attempts and money offers were unavailing. Her hair was arranged in a thin, vertical coil, projecting about eight inches from her head behind and noticeable at any distance. The wearers of this odd coiffure are female barbers and belong to an order called the "To min." I cannot just now see one; but only a second ago one of them was on the bridge near us. There are three thousand in the "To min" set, and they, like the Tankia at Canton, are despised by the general community. The men are not allowed to compete in the examinations or follow an honorable vocation; they are often actors, musicians or sedan-chair carriers. The women are professional match-makers and barbers, and are obliged to wear a distinctive dress. The “To min" are supposed to be descendants of one Kin who aided the Japanese in their attack on this province; hence the odium which has rested upon them ever since. It is often charged that the Chinese lack patriotism, but this prejudice against the "To min" surely resembles patriotism.
You see a part of the steeple of the Catholic Church beyond the river. A Christian Church in the heart of a Chinese city is always a wonderful sight because of its power of suggestion. It always seems to say: "Look on this picture and on this." The missionary work has long been well established in Ningpo. All denominations are represented, and it is said that the people in this province have been more susceptible to Christian influence than in many other parts of the country. The sights that meet the eye in Ningpo are very similar to those we have seen in Shanghai and Canton, but still there are some curious things worthy our attention.
We will cross that bridge and pass yonder church. On our way, in a yard, a timber-yard, we will call it, we shall stop to inspect an unusual and ancient kind of saw-mill.