2. Looking Across the Bay to Kowloon and Mainland from Bowen Road, above Hongkong.
Now we obtain our first sight of the main-land of China, but scarcely yet do we see Chinese territory, for all that portion of the mainland now within our view is under the British flag, England having in recent years leased for a period of ninety-nine years (which an Englishman knows means forever) a peninsula embracing many square miles of territory, and extending many miles beyond those rocky mountains. The military and naval defenses of Hongkong would be quite insecure unless England held adjacent lands on the mainland shore before us. To the right and to the left of those bold barren mountains are sheltered bays from which a foreign fleet with modern guns could hurl monstrous projectiles to the very spot on which we stand. Mirs Bay, that memorable retreat of Admiral Dewey, when compelled by the enforcement of England's neutrality to leave the port of Hongkong, is only ten miles away, just behind those mountains to the right. We are now looking a little to the east of north.
If we now look down to the harbor before us we may see, quite to the right and farthest away, the long black cargo ship on which we stood when we obtained our first view, and a little nearer we see a large white mastless hull roofed over and anchored fore and aft; that is a naval receiving ship of the station, to which naval men and officers are brought when transfers are to be made.
A little nearer we see a long, rakish, crouching, demoniacal looking craft with a skulking lowness in the water. Her appearance betrays her-she is a torpedo boat. In the center of our field of vision we see a large white ship with three funnels; her lines indicate other purposes than the pursuit of commerce. She is plainly a warship. Our field of vision embraces only a narrow space across the channel; throughout its full length there are seldom fewer than fifteen or twenty of these grim arbiters anchored in this focus of Oriental commerce, and they are mostly English. What a wonderful country is England!
Across the harbor immediately before us, and to the right of the projecting headland, are situated the city and harbor of Kowloon, at which are dry docks that will accommodate the largest warships. We can faintbeyond a sharp ly see the docks across that small bay point of land, to the right of the city. It was there that several of the Spanish warships destroyed by our fleet in Manila Bay were taken for reconstruction under the supervision of the brave hero of the "Merrimac," Lieutenant Hobson. The water front at Kowloon is lined with piers to accommodate the largest ocean ships. It is out there at Kowloon that all cargoes to and from distant ports are loaded and discharged. Vast storehouses, or "godowns" as they are named in the East, to accommodate transshipment, are ranged near the piers. It is estimated that the actual trade of the European colony, exclusive of the cargoes which pass through this port without breaking bulk, is over 100,000,000 pounds per annum. Many passenger steamers for Europe and America coal and embark passengers from the docks at Kowloon; but the boats of the Pacific Mail, the Canadian Pacific and most of the great lines for Europe receive and discharge their cargoes and embark and debark passengers at their anchorage in the harbor, which extends a mile or more on either hand in the bay between us and the opposite shore. The harbor front at Kowloon presents a busy scene; rail-trucks are constantly thundering back and forth between the long piers and the godowns, coolies, in long lines, waddling under heavy loads carried on bamboo poles, pass to and fro uttering a weird, rhythmical cry which they think helps to dispel a consciousness of physical burden. At frequent intervals small steam ferry-boats ply between Hongkong and Kowloon, carrying first-class passengers at five-cent fares and second-class at half that amount. I must remind you, however, that the busy commercial port we see across the bay is not the native city of Kowloon. What we see is chiefly the result of England's commercial development. A water-front embracing about three square miles was here added to the colony of Hongkong thirty-five years ago. Before this section was ceded to the English, it had been a haunt for smugglers and all the lawless rabble around about. A few miles out among those low hills a granite bowlder marks the place of the surrender of the last of the Taipings.
The native city of the same name is hidden among the low hills three miles distant and a little to our right. The native Kowloon is a typical old Chinese city of low onestory buildings with tile roofs and surrounded by a dilapidated brick wall.
Those mountains in the distance are rocky and barren as is frequently the case near the sea-coast; but beyond are many fertile and well-cultivated valleys producing rice, sugar-cane, sweet potatoes, garden fruits and vegetables. In some portions of this peninsula that curious nut or fruit, sometimes seen in our markets, called the lichee, is abundantly produced. Along that mountain range to the left, distinctly visible from positions near us, is a long line of excavation that shows the beginning of a railroad that is to connect Hongkong and Canton.
When we looked at Hongkong from the ship your attention was called to three buildings, one containing the cable office; those buildings are again before us, down by the harbor. On the left is the Cable building. A little further to the left, just to the right of the tree before us, and about half way to the Cable building, is St. John's Protestant Cathedral, a pretty building erected over fifty years ago, with a seating capacity for eight hundred. And below us to the left of the tree we see the spire of the Union Church, erected two years before the former and seating about five hundred people. Looking at European churches in the Far East naturally reminds one of schools. Much encouragement has been given in that direction in Hongkong, and the Chinese inhabitants are quite alive to the importance of education. Nearly nine thousand children are in attendance at the public schools. I once visited a native school here. When approaching the schoolhouse I was amazed at the great volume of vocal noise proceeding from within the schoolroom. On entering I soon learned that all the pupils were studying aloud, and very loud. I asked the teacher, who spoke intelligible English, if Chinese pupils always study in this fashion. He replied that "Chinamen believe study muchee loud remember more better." This is a thought for the teacher who is fond of hearing a "pin drop," and a plea for the boy who isn't.
Within a few feet of us we see some of the vegetation on the mountain-side, and sections of the occasional pinetrees. My native boy supports himself against one as he also scans the panorama. I do not now remember whether his back presentation was from choice or necessity, because sometimes the lower classes can be induced to present their backs to the camera when vast sums of money would not induce them to face that dire instrument of evil, believing that when their faces are photographed a part of their identity is forever lost to them, and this becomes a serious matter in their ancestral worship.
CANTON.
We have seen the mainland of China from Hongkong. We shall return again to the harbor, pass along the waterfront to the left for a half-mile, and board a steamer for Canton, distant about seventy-five miles. After landing at Canton we shall go a short distance above the landingplace to the Imperial Custom House, from the roof of which we shall look back down the river over the route from Hongkong.
Let us turn to the special map of Canton, Map No. 4, where we find our position and field of vision shown by the red lines which start from near the river and branch toward the right. The number 3 is found near the apex and at the ends of these lines.