91. A Group of Pekinese Women in the Court of a Wealthy Chinese Home, Pekin.
As a type of South China, you saw the Bible woman at Canton, and of Middle China, you saw a class of pretty girls at Shanghai, and as a representation from the north we offer these Christianized women under the London Mission. An opinion prevails that the Chinese are a dwarfed race; in this respect, they seem, and not unnaturally, to be confounded with the Japanese. It is a mistake, however; the highest authority places the men in the north of China as being a little larger than the average European or American, and those at the south as a trifle smaller, while the average Chinese woman is smaller than the average of her sex in the West. The scarcity of beauty among Chinese women is remarked by every observer; most persons forget, however, that all of the male sex are everywhere on view, while only the lower class among women are seen by the ordinary observer. Before a fair comparison can be made we must hide away from public view an equal proportion of Western beauty. We know, in China, all beauty is jealously screened from vulgar gaze, while the opposite is true in Western countries. In general, it is readily conceded that the Caucasian face and figure are more comely than those of the Mongolian. The flat nose detracts much from the facial beauty of the Chinese. Roman or Greek noses would effect a marvelous alteration in their faces. Next to the depressed nasal feature, the ill-shaped mouth mars the Chinese face; the angular eyes do not seriously disparage their appearance. And I am not sure but the usual sadness of the female face in China detracts more from its attractiveness than aught else. A smile improves every face, but it altogether transforms a Chinese woman's face. Poor things, they have little reason to smile! They are enslaved and imprisoned!
A friend said to me: "How is courtship perpetrated in China?" Well, all people are interested in matrimony, barring possibly thoroughly confirmed old bachelors; and as Chinese matrimonial customs are curious I cannot do better than to give some interesting and reliable statements from Williams's "Middle Kingdom."
"There are six ceremonies which constitute a regular marriage, though their details vary much in different parts of the Empire: 1. The father and elder brother of the young man send a go-between to the father and brother of the girl, to inquire her name and the moment of her birth, that the horoscope may be examined in order to ascertain whether the proposed alliance will be a happy one. 2. If the eight characters seem to augur aright, the boy's friends send the mei-jin (match-maker) back to make an offer of marriage. 3. If that be accepted, the second party is again requested to return an assent in writing. 4. Presents are then sent to the girl's parents according to the means of the father. 5. The go-between requests them to choose a lucky day for the wedding. 6. The preliminaries are concluded by the bridegroom going or sending a party of friends with music to bring his bride to his own house. The match-makers contrive to multiply their visits and prolong the negotiations when the parties are rich, to serve their own ends. At Fukien, parents often send pledges to each other when their children are mere infants, and registers containing their names and particulars of nativity are exchanged in testiof the contract.
mony "After this has been done it is impossible to retract the engagement, unless one of the parties become a leper or is disabled. When the children are espoused older, the boy sometimes accompanies the go-between and the party carrying the presents to the house of his future mother-inlaw, and receives from her some trifling articles, as melonseeds, fruits, etc., which he distributes to those around. Among the presents sent to the girl are fruits, money, vermicelli and a ham, of which she gives a morsel to each one of the party.
These articles are neatly arranged, and the party bringing them is received with a salute of fire-crackers. From the time of her engagement until marriage a young lady is required to maintain the strictest seclusion. Whenever friends call upon her parents, she is expected to retire to the inner apartments, and in all her actions and words guard her conduct with careful solicitude. When the lucky day for the wedding comes, the guests assemble in the bridegroom's house to celebrate it, where also sedans, a band of music and porters are in readiness. The courier who acts as guide to the chair-bearers takes the lead, and in order to prevent the onset of malicious demons lurking by the road, a baked hog or large piece of pork is carried in front, that the procession may advance safely while these hungry souls are devouring the meat.
Meanwhile the bride arranges herself in her best dress and richest jewels. Her girlish tresses have already been bound up, and her hair arranged by a matron, with due formality; an ornamental and complicated headdress made of rich materials, not unlike a helmet or corona, often forms part of her coiffure. Her person is nearly covered by a large mantle, over which is an enormous hat like an umbrella, that descends to the shoulders and shades the whole figure. Thus attired she takes her seat in the red gilt marriage sedan, called hwa kiao, borne by four men, in which she is completely concealed. This is locked by her mother or some other relative, and the key given to one of the bridemen, who hands it to the bridegroom or his representative on reaching his house. The procession is now arranged with the addition of as many red boxes and trays to contain the wardrobe, kitchen utensils and the feast, as the means of the family or the paraphernalia require. As the procession approaches the bridegroom's house the courier hastens forward to announce its coming, whereupon the music strikes up, and fire-crackers salute her until she enters the gate. As she approaches the door the bridegroom conceals himself, but the go-between brings forward a young child to salute her, while going to seek the closeted bridegroom. He approaches with becoming gravity and opens the sedan to hand out his bride, she still retaining the hat and mantle; they approach the ancestral tablet, which they reverence with three bows, and then seat themselves at a table on which are two cups of spirits. The go-between serves them, though the bride can only make the motion of drinking, as the large hat completely covers her face. They soon retire into a chamber, where the husband removes the hat and mantle from his wife and sees her, perhaps for the first time in his life. After he has considered her for some time, the guests and friends enter the room to survey her, when each one is allowed to express an opinon; the criticisms of the women are severest, perhaps because they remember the time they stood in her unpleasant position. This cruel examination being over, she is introduced to her husband's parents and then salutes her own."
This to us seems a strange nuptial ceremony, but custom establishes many strange usages, and many of our own are strange to those to whom they are unfamiliar.
Before leaving the group now before us, note carefully the rich dress, the neatly and curiously arranged hair and ornaments, and the small feet which have heretofore been described. We will introduce to you another group of northern women, Chinese subjects, but of the Manchurian type. Then you may see Manchurian feet, Manchurian coiffure, Manchurian dress and features.