40. A Genial Official of Interior China-Naval Mandarin (Admiral River Fleet), Wife and Daughter, Kinkow.
As usual we had great difficulty in keeping back the crowd, and a mandarin is not expected to interfere with the obtrusiveness of a street throng. Besides, you can easily perceive by his mellow blink that Western cognac has relegated his basilar instincts to peaceful realms, or, in other words, that he is a good-natured fellow under blissful stimulation; these conditions, added to unusual intelligence, made him a very agreeable personage for us after spending a week among the hostile and unscrupulous tribes out of which Boxers are organized. The wife appears a little demure or matronly modest. The daughter is probably best described in the words of Childs, who stood at my back keeping off the crowd, and whispered: "Isn't she a dandy?" A fan is the vade mecum of every Chinaman under the sun and under the moon, too, for that matter, as they carry them at night as well as during the day. A Chinaman without a fan is as rare as one without a queue, or as anomalous as a Scotchman without an umbrella. They may safely be called the greatest fan makers and fan users in the world. It would probably be more correct to call them fan carriers rather than fan users, as they are more often carried and not used.
This official and his family are very richly attired; their garments are wholly of the richest silks and satins and elaborately wrought in the finest embroidery. The styles do not change from year to year, as ours do; they can, therefore, provide themselves with the most costly dress without the necessity of a new supply with every change of fashion. Fashions remain essentially the same for centuries, and garments are handed down from one generation to another, without being considered antiquated. The costumes of both sexes are equally graceful and convenient. The European dress has been called a "mysterious combination of the inconvenient and the unpicturesque." And so it is neither comfortable nor convenient-and we are greater slaves to fashion than the Chinese. In the Chinese dress there is not much difference in the style for the sexes. In the outer tunics worn by this family notice the capacious sleeves; they are very full and often exquisitely embroidered. In cold weather, instead of wearing mittens or gloves, the hands are drawn within the sleeves; and good breeding requires one to keep the hands in such a position as to properly display the sleeves. You may understand from this why I did not require this mandarin to place his hands in a more graceful position; it would have been impertinence and bad manners; that is his way and it is right, according to his standard of good form. The underskirt is one of the prettiest parts of the female attire; it extends a foot below the outer garment and is beautifully embroidered. You cannot but observe the entire absence of collars or anything about the neck to impede freedom of movement and destroy comfort. Probably the most important thing about the dress is that square piece of cloth on the front of the tunic, called by some writers a breastplate. It is elegantly wrought in gold thread and silk and bears the insignia of rank. Sumptuary laws and laws of rank and dress are very comprehensive and specific, to the smallest detail, in China. There are many ranks in both social and official life. Houses must be made in a certain way for a certain rank, even to the most trifling detail. It is the same in dress; what is to be worn in summer and what in winter is prescribed, from hat to stockings, with the utmost particularity. It is scarcely possible for any one to understand how precise and exacting are these laws of rank. It is worth while to quote a few lines from Gray's excellent work on China in regard to these laws.
The "The law distinctly states, with regard to the winter costume, that the hat to be worn shall be covered with dark satin and the inside lined with dark cloth. brim is to be turned up. The apex must be adorned with a tassel of red silk so long and so thick as to cover the entire top. The top of a court hat for the winter season must be covered with red floss silk so long as to extend slightly over the brim. The summer hat is to be made either of fine straw or of very thin strips of bamboo or rattan; the outside covered with very fine silk, with a tassel of red silk cord on the top. The border must not turn up. The court hat for summer is to resemble the ordinary summer hat in all particulars except the following: The rim must be covered with gold lace and the inside lined with red gauze. The travelling hat for summer is to resemble the ordinary summer hat in form. The red tassel, however, must be of cow's hair. In addition to the tassel, a button, indicating by its color the rank of the wearer, must be attached to the apex of each hat. For example, the hat worn by a gentleman or officers of the first rank, is distinguished by a button of a bright red color on its apex. A dark red button distinguishes the second rank; a dark blue button, the third rank; a light-blue button, the fourth rank; a crystal button, the fifth rank; a white button, the sixth rank; a gold button, the seventh or eighth rank; and a silver button, the ninth rank. To the back of each hat is also attached a peacock's feather, which, in the case of a person of high rank, has two eyes, while persons of inferior rank are restricted to a feather which has only one eye. On those so-called breastplates different emblems are used to designate the rank; birds are used for civil ranks, and animals for the military. The uniform of the imperial soldiers has a cloth badge on the breast and on the back, giving the regimental designation. Official gentlemen of the highest rank have the angelic stork on the breastplate; those of the second rank, the pheasant; of the third rank, the peacock; of the fourth rank, the wild goose; of the fifth, the silver pheasant; of the sixth, the cormorant; of the seventh, a bird called ki chik; of the eighth, the quail; of the ninth, a kind of white bird.
The rank of military officers is designated by different animals on the breastplate."
This is sufficient to show you how exact are the laws laid down for rank distinctions in dress; the minute rules about the cap are made in all the garments. In building houses for persons of different ranks the same detailed rules must be observed, even to the number of nails in certain places. Now, can you tell by the badges on the mandarin and his wife to what military and social rank they belong? I take the bird on the wife's badge to be a wild goose; if that be correct, she is of the fourth rank; but I cannot identify the animal on the breastplate of the mandarin; it is something like a lion and not altogether unlike a yellow dog; but I cannot make out with certainty. The daughter is probably too young to have yet taken a degree, but she surely bears the loveliest insignia of all, the badge of modest maidenhood.
We returned to the mandarin's fleet in the river. He was on board to receive us. Our house-boat was brought alongside. A salute of four guns was fired in our honor, that being the highest number given as a mark of honor, and after saluting Chinese fashion, then European fashion, and repeating the formality again and again, bowing like fighting-cocks all the while, we sculled cut into the great yellow Yang-tse-Kiang, where we caught a lively breeze which soon carried us the last twenty miles down stream to Hankow. I paid off my crew, returned the house-boat to the owners and this terminated my trip of a hundred miles into the mountain region. On the following day I took passage on one of the regular steamers for Shanghai, stopping off for a night at Nankin, in order to visit the famous tombs of the Kings.