4. A Street of Flower-boats-Places of Amusement and Debauchery, Canton.
We stand on the upper deck or roof of one of these boats and look northward toward the shore and over the city. A range of flower-boats lies between us and the shore. These may be called the summer-gardens of Canton. They are often gorgeously furnished within; the woodwork is carved; the walls are hung with pictures and embroideries; wall mirrors duplicate all objects of ornamentation; the furniture is inlaid with mother-ofpearl; flowers, both natural and artificial, furnish an abundance of color; and every night these popular resorts are filled with seekers after pleasure and recreation. The opium smoker with his seductive pipe comes here to dispel his cares with this insidious narcotic; the gambler comes to these flower-boats to try his fortune at fan-tan or other Chinese games, for gambling is one of China's national vices.
Although the Chinese are an industrious race, they often have an excess of leisure, and too much leisure always creates a desire for a pastime or for pleasure resorts "An idle brain is the devil's workshop." As our idlers repair to a saloon or a summer-garden, so the Chinese idlers, as well as Chinese professional chance men, come to these flower-boats to win at cards, at dominoes, or dice. The passion for gambling is universal, and the stereotyped invitation "Buy a chance and get rich," is heard everywhere. So the gaudy interiors of these floating dens of vice are nightly filled with sharpers, with idlers, with gamblers and desperate characters.
Most travellers and tourists who come to Canton seldom spend more than two or three days in visiting the various places of interest. Many come on the morning steamer and return to Hongkong by the night boat of the same day. It is not a desirable place for a long sojourn. There is so much that is repellent besides the exorbitant prices of poor hotels that a single day may satisfy the sightseer; naturally, therefore, there is a set number of places to be visited in a limited time, and one of these places is the flower-boats. A question one constantly hears at the hotel is, "Have you been to the flowerboats?" They have a sort of Monte Carlo notoriety that makes them an object of interest to all travellers.
These boats cost from five hundred to a thousand dollars, and are generally owned by the men in charge of them. At night these boats are illuminated brilliantly with lamps and lanterns, and patrons come and go by boats and along those projecting bows. Then they are not safe places to visit unless accompanied by a guide; but during the day they are vacated except by the owners and their families whom we see engaged in their daily routine of putting their boats in order for another night's round of feasting, gambling and dissipation. One woman is whipping the dust from chair and settee cushions. Two girls have spied us and are gazing quizzically at our strange manner and appearance. A little beyond, a dame with her back toward us is delivering the morning gossip to her neighbors on the next boat, while her liege by her side, with "turned-up pantaloons," is on daily avocations bent.
Beyond the small house-boat two men in characteristic crouching pose are plainly watching the "foreign devils"
and commenting thereon in a foul sarcasm only possible among Chinese. We see near the same place a woman perched on the roof; we can see another in the distance. With us "Time is money," with the Chinese time is of little account, but space is money. The top of the flowerboat is a place for storage and for clothes-lines, which you see are poles.
Although space is valuable and upper space is free, yet the Chinese do not evidently take to "sky-scrapers," as you can judge from the single story buildings everywhere. Pawn shops, however, constitute a curious exception to the rule of low buildings, two of which you may see in the distance. These pawn shops form landmarks in Chinese cities and may be seen at great distances towering above all other buildings.
Just before these flower-boats we have a good example of a small house-boat-its shape, its roof, and a projection over the stern, where, as I have already stated, are placed the pig-box and the hen-coop. We have heard of countries where the pig is kept in the parlor; but in the house-boat space is more valuable. There is not much choice, however, for the porcine member in one case has more space, in the other better ventilation.
You see those garments hung out to dry on poles and near them, also on poles, objects that might be mistaken for sheepskins; they are mackintoshes-rain coats made of bamboo leaves; they serve their purpose well and only cost from ten to twenty cents each.
Notice now a short distance over in the city an object which in other countries would be taken for a flag-pole, with an arrangement resembling the cross trees on a ship's mast. That pole you will see in every city and large town in China. It marks the residence of a mandarin, and it is often a convenience when travelling in China to know just where the mandarin, in a town or village, lives.
We are here looking almost due north, and by following a northerly direction for several miles we shall find ourselves next standing on the northern side of the city and looking almost directly towards the spot we now occupy. The red lines starting from the number 5 near the top of Map No. 4 and toward the southeast show our position and field of vision.