99. The Empress Dowager's Counselors in dealings with the Powers-Members of the Tsung-li Yamen, Pekin.
The Chinese government is administered through several branches, such as the Board of Civil Office, the Board of Revenue, the Board of Rites, the Board of War, the Board of Punishments, the Board of Works, etc., and only in recent years has a new board been created called the Tsung-li Yamên, or Board of Foreign Affairs. The whole duty of the Tsung-li Yamên is to receive and confer with foreign ministers and to act as an intermediary between them and the Court. All diplomatic communications to the different Boards, or to the throne must be made through the Tsung-li Yamên. No foreign minister can come before the Emperor or the Empress. This condition of affairs is both inconvenient and offensive. It was painfully exemplified during the siege of 1900 when this treacherous go-between Board screened the sinister motives of the crafty Empress. In the peace negotiations, now signed at Pekin, it is said that a radical alteration has been made in the relations of the foreign ministers to the Court, and that the article relating thereto is as follows:
"The Chinese Government shall be bound to reform the Chinese Foreign Office and the court ceremonial for the reception of the foreign representatives, and to do so in the sense which shall be defined by the Foreign Powers."
At any rate you have before you three representatives of the notorious Chinese Board of Foreign Affairs. These are men who were in office during the siege, the one seated is the interpreter. What do you think of them? I hope you will not fail to notice the fine feathers in their caps, because I swung two of these dignitaries partially around that you might see them. These are important men in Chinese affairs; they are members of the newly organized Board. How we would like to know just what they did and said and thought during those dark days of the siege; being identified with Prince Ching they, of course, pretend that they were friendly, but sincerity is a rare thing in the "Middle Kingdom," and then the faces of Chinamen so often possess a coldness which dispels confidence.
General Wilson in his latest revision of his book on China says of this modern Board of Foreign Affairs: "In view of the fact that none of the members of the Board understand English, or any other foreign language, and none of the foreign ministers speaks Chinese, all conversation must be carried on through the intervention of official interpreters, and to prevent mistakes all official communications must be in writing, translated into the court dialect, or literary language of the country. As this language is almost an insuperable obstacle to the general dissemination of Western knowledge, and as there is no social intercourse whatever between foreigners and the conservative Chinese officials or their families, it will readily be seen that there cannot be a very active interchange of ideas between them."
A careful student of Chinese affairs in Pekin for many years said to me of the representatives of the Tsung-li Yamên. The members of the Tsung-li Yamên are not usually chosen because of their intelligence. It is a place where men with progressive tendencies are sometimes put to keep them in check. There are eleven members and nine are requisite for the transaction of business, and as most of them are reactionary there is little hope that a man with progressive spirit will have any special influence. However, there were two men of high courage in the summer of 1900 who protested against the murder of unarmed foreigners, and for endeavoring to protect the helpless these two men were beheaded. The Yamên has proved to be practically useless for the transaction of business, and now it is replaced by the Office of Foreign Affairs. Whether they will do any better remains to be seen.
An assemblage of the representatives of the great powers are meeting daily to discuss the great questions of indemnities, penalties and the future relations of the Empire to the nations concerned. A stupendous responsibility devolves upon these representatives. Both for the terrible siege through which most of them passed and for the important work they are doing, it is both a pleasure and an honor to meet these noteworthy men.