90. Magnificent Bronze Astronomical Instruments made in 1674, under Emperor Kanghi, Imperial Observatory, Pekin.
We have come to this point to see partially several instruments made by the Jesuits, rather than to see an entire single instrument. A portion of one of the many ornamental dragons upon which the instruments are mounted is very near, so that we are able to inspect details, though of course this is only for decoration and does not show the delicate mathematical accuracy of the instruments. In the court below the instruments made by the Chinese themselves, not only antedate these Jesuit-made instruments by over four hundred years, but are much finer in scientific and artistic workmanship. A quite full and careful description of them by J. Thompson, F.R.C.S., will give you a good idea of their merit as well as of their exquisite handicraft; so while we look at those of the Jesuits we will hear about those of the Chinese: "Here, in addition to the colossal astronomical instrument erected by the Jesuit Missionaries in the seventeenth century we find two other instruments, in a court below, which the Chinese made for themselves, toward the close of the thirteenth century, when the Yuen dynasty was on the throne. Possibly some elements of European science may have been brought to bear on the construction of even these instruments; although the characters and divisions engraved on their splendid bronze circles point only to the Chinese method of dividing the year, and to the state of Chinese astronomy at the time. Yet Marco Polo must have been in the north of China at about the period of their manufacture; or, at any rate, John de Carvino was there, for he, under Pope Clement V, became bishop of Cambalu (Pekin) about 1290 A. D., and perhaps with his numerous staff of priests he introduced some knowledge of Western art.
"Mr. Wylie (than whom there is probably no better authority) was with me when I examined these instruments, and is of opinion that they are Chinese and that they were produced by Ko-Show-King, one of the most famous astronomers of China. One of them is an astrolabe, furnished beneath with a splendid sun-dial, which has long since lost its gnomon. The whole, indeed, consists of three astrolabæ, one partly movable and partly fixed in the plane of the ecliptic; the second turning on a center as a meridian circle, and the third the azimuth circle. The other instrument is an armillary sphere, supported by chained dragons of most beautiful workmanship and design. This instrument is a marvelous specimen of the perfection to which the Chinese must, even then, have brought the art of casting in bronze. The horizon is inscribed with the twelve cyclical characters, into which the 326 Chinese divided the day and night. Outside the ring these characters appear again, paired with eight characters of the denary cycle, and four names of the eight diagrams of the book of changes, denoting the points of the compass, while the inside of the ring bears the names of the twelve states into which China, in ancient times, was portioned out. An equatorial circle, a double-ring ecliptic, an equinoctial colure, and a double-ring colure, are adjusted with the horizon ring. The equator is engraved with constellations of unknown antiquity, while the ecliptic is marked off into twenty-four equal spaces, corresponding to the divisions of the year. All the circles are divided into 365 degrees for the days of the year, while each degree is sub-divided into one hundred parts, as for everything less than a degree the centenary scale prevailed at that period. I take these instruments to be of great interest, as indicating the state of astronomical science in China at about the end of the thirteenth century."
When we witness such perfection in art and such advancement in science, we must not forget that the abovedescribed instruments were made nearly four hundred years before the Greenwich Observatory was founded and two hundred years before Columbus discovered America, and that even a thousand years prior to that time China was a civilized nation.
Some of the instruments before us were taken by the German officers to Berlin, and apparently are to remain there permanently. The Chinese do not seem to care enough for them to insist on their return.
We have been giving attention to circumstances of war, to palaces, to temples, memorial portals and astronomical instruments; now let me present to you an assemblage of Pekinese women near the London Mission. The London Mission is located on the east side of Von Ketteler street, about one mile north of the Ha-ta Gate. See the number 32 in black on the map.