47. Burning of Tongku-U. S. S. "Monocacy" at Landing with Hole through Bow made by Chinese Shell.
This scene shows Tongku a few days after the capture of the forts at Taku. The relief expedition under Admiral Seymour had failed to reach Pekin, and after great loss and privation had returned to Tien-tsin. It was supposed by every one that all within the legations had been massacred. The war was on, and every nation was rushing forward troops with all the hurried bustle of desperation. I reached this place on the Fourth of July; you see the flags out on the "Monocacy." Notwithstanding the gloomy news from every quarter, every foreign warship flung out the Stars and Stripes in honor of the American nation's birthday. There was no jubilant popping of firecrackers, which we are wont to hear on this festal day, but there was the crackling of destructive flames which were everywhere devouring the vacated homes of the terrified inhabitants. On the following day, news came that the relieving force which had been dispatched to Tien-tsin had been driven back and might have to retreat to the seacoast. There were encampments of French soldiers, Russian soldiers and Japanese soldiers. Army stores were heaped up in every space near the docks. The crippled ships which had been in conflict at Taku were strung along the river in different stages of convalescence. Refugees were hourly arriving from Tien-tsin; some, finding passage in departing steamers, while others found temporary shelter on the "Monocacy." At low tide the opposite shore is lined with bloated human forms which have floated down from villages up the river where the Boxers have done their bloody work or where the Russian relief force slaughtered everything before it on its march to Tien-tsin.
This town was rapidly becoming the rendezvous of the armies of the world; it was universal chaos come again,
"And there was mounting in hot haste; the steed, The mustering squadron, and the clattering car Went pouring forward with impetuous speed, And swiftly forming in the ranks of war."
Every one felt that the fleet-winged hours were clipping life threads at Pekin. The difficulty was now to reach Tien-tsin and, in the meantime, to find a lodging place at Tongku. All railway communication was cut off, and the military at Tien-tsin were driving civilians away, and no hotel or lodging place could be found in Tongku. During the first night I was permitted to sleep on board the boat on which I had arrived. On the second day I asked for permission to sleep on the bare deck of the "Monocacy," but my modest request was roughly refused by the Captain, who, with the officious consequence of a man commanding nothing better than an oldfashioned side-wheel tub that had been thirty years poking her prow into the mud banks along the Yang-tse, said he was reserving all space for missionaries. Accompanied by a young Swiss gentleman, I trudged several times the length of the slough-bound town to obtain only space in which to sleep for one night, hoping the following day to find some way of reaching Tien-tsin. Fortunately we fell in with a Russian officer, who, learning of our straits for a lodging place, in the blandest and most hospitable manner told us to follow him to the railway station and he would find us a room where he and his fellow officers were temporarily quartered. A Russian servant was turned out of a small hot room which was furnished with two small benches; on these we slept, each wrapping his coat about his head as a protection against myriads of flies-army flies, I suppose. I have often had occasion to entertain very high opinions of Russian gentility and politeness, while my opinions of the government are quite otherwise. The charming manner of a Russian gentleman is remarked by every one; and if there is one fault more conspicuous than another in our own country, I should name it national lack of courtesy. We made a slender morning repast from articles we bought from the steward of the German ship, and then I left my companion and set out to find transportation to Tien-tsin.
TIEN-TSIN.
After wandering about Tongku for some time I heard of a tug bound for Tien-tsin. I went on board, and a soldier in command said he was neither authorized to carry nor to refuse to carry any one. "Tien-tsin is the best place I know of to leave, just now; but go if you like," said the blunt commander of the little commissary craft. Yesterday it was nip and tuck all day, and the Allies may be driven down here to-day, but if you are fond of shells bursting in your hair, go." "Well, I've never experienced shells in that way," I replied, "but, as the Chinamen say, I will have a 'look see.'” While the distance by rail is only some twenty-eight miles, it is forty by the winding course of the Pei-ho. The voyage occupied a good part of the day. Many mud villages were passed on the way, from most of which the inhabitants had fled back into the country. We were constantly passing dead bodies floating down, and, on either bank of the river, at every turn, hungry dogs from the deserted villages could be seen tearing at the swollen corpses left on the banks by the ebb tide. It was forty miles of country laid waste, deserted homes, burned villages, along a river polluted and malodorous with human putrefaction. At last I was in Tien-tsin. It was on the 5th of July. Our national holiday I had celebrated under most unusual conditions at Tongku. The fifth presented a weird proscenium in the theater of war. The city had been reinvested; the previous day had witnessed a stubbornly contested attack at the railway station. Everywhere were to be seen dreadful scenes of desolation. Conflagration had already laid waste the entire French Concession and a good part of the English; housetops were covered with extemporized defenses; storehouses had been employed to provide defensive barricades; bales of wool, bags of peanuts, sacks of licorice-root and sacks of rice, in enormous quantities, had been utilized for breastworks. Smoke was curling up everywhere from smoldering ruins. Scarcely had I got my luggage ashore before shells came crashing over the settlement. Three of the four hotels had been destroyed; the one remaining was occupied by the military. I found an empty room in a vacated Chinese compound, where I made my bivouac until driven out.
After putting my pre-empted space into habitable conditions, I set out to reconnoiter war environments.
Just before we start on our tour of exploration, we must get a general idea of the plan of the city. Spread out the map of Tien-tsin, Map No. 7. Near the center of the map we see the rectangular outline of the Native City, the heavier black line showing the course of its encompassing brick wall. Many native villages are grouped around this inner city. The Pei-ho River winds among the outlying villages in a general course from the northwest toward the southeast. The Japanese, French, British and German Concessions lie to the southeast of the Native City on the river's right bank; the proposed Russian Concession is on the left bank. An earth or mud wall encircles the entire area covered by the old city, the villages and the Foreign Concessions. The course of the railroad which connects Taku and Pekin is seen to the east of the river. By much effort I had made my way up the Pei-ho to a point near that first bend toward the left, or west. One of the first places we shall visit together is the pontoon bridge made by the French opposite the French Concession. We are to stand as the red lines connected with the number 48 show, on the left bank of the river, and look toward a street and range of buildings on the opposite bank, a part of the French Concession.