61. Looking North from South Gate over the Burning City, just after its Occupation by the Allies, Tien-tsin.
For several days after the city was taken, destructive fires broke out in different parts, and it was reported that the entire city was to be destroyed, and from the precipitate flight of the terror stricken inhabitants, one could not but believe that such notice had been served upon them. At every gate, men, women and children were trampling and jostling in their efforts to escape to the country and to outlying villages. The dead remained for days on the streets and within the deserted homes. Here you can see homes going up in flame and smoke, and the homeless people sitting around awaiting permission from the French guards to leave the city. These poor people are probably in no way responsible for the Boxer uprising, yet they have lost home and all save these paltry bundles, and thousands and tens of thousands have shared this ruthless fate. From here you can only see at a distance the ravages of flame; you cannot see within those homes and shops the ravages of human hands as I saw them after leaving this spot and passing through streets near those all-devouring elements. Doors were smashed; shops were entered and plundered; men and women were fleeing, carrying their precious heirlooms-their jewels, their furs, their silks, their embroidery, their money. These much-prized valuables were snatched from them, and they dared not protest; they could not protest; they could not even tell that they were not Boxers; but their lives were dearer than their most cherished jade-stones, and they were even thankful to escape with life and honor. One's property depreciates wonderfully when his life is imperiled. I saw native women surrender their dearest belongings almost in a spirit of gratitude that life was not demanded. Looting from an enemy bent on taking your life as well as your property is justifiable by a natural quid pro quo equivalency, or by the law of reprisal, as well as by the Old Testament code; but indiscriminate plunder of friend and foe is robbery, and robbery is robbery even in war. The looting by the Allies was not confined to the enemy, nor even to the Chinese, but extended to the European settlement, where temporarily vacated homes of Europeans were entered and plundered. Shamefully looted China has had a lesson in the ethics of Christian armies she will not soon forget. Li Hung Chang said to a friend of mine that he had been reading up the Mosaic decalogue of the Christians, and suggested that the eighth commandment should be amended to read, "Thou shalt not steal, but thou mayst loot." I have here mentioned looting because that which I witnessed and which I shall not soon forget occurred near where you see this fire burning.
After an interval of three days we return to the South Gate and stand again on the wall over the gate and look directly north, toward the heart of the city. See red lines connected with the number 62 on the map.