59. Chinese who Paid War's Penalty-At South Gate Immediately after Allies Entered the CityBattle of Tien-tsin.
The South Gate is beneath that burned tower on which our flag floats. We entered there from our left, turned in this direction and ascended the wall at that inclined causeway at the right of the Japanese soldiers on the wall. We are now looking westward, along the top of the wall. The West Arsenal and the foreign settlements lie beyond this wall to our left.
For days we have been looking to this spot before us; now we stand upon it when the victorious Allies are spreading out into every part of the city to our right. We mentioned the Boxers in ignominious flight. You notice two before us not in the condition of flight. Since we entered China, these are the first I have been able to show you of the I-Ho-Chuan Society. These poor fellows do not look much like overthrowing the reigning dynasty or even expelling the foreigners. We know they are Boxers. because they do not wear the uniform of the Imperial soldiers. The number of dead along this wall was not great. You see the protection afforded by this loopholed defense rising on our left. The Boxers stood behind this and only occasional shots, passing through loopholes, could reach them. The greater number of dead are in the streets and houses near this gate, many of whom have been killed by common shells and the deadly gases of the lyddite shells. The wall, at the point where the soldiers are standing, extends to the left for about fifty feet, forming a quadrangle within which the great gates are located; hence, the impossibility of reaching them with shell. While we are considering the wall, let me ask you to notice how it is constructed, as, at this place, the ruinous condition shows the formation, viz., a face wall, eight or ten feet in thickness on both sides, and the interspace filled with clay. The bricks used are large, about four by eight by twelve inches. You see a gathering of Japanese soldiers near the burned tower, and a few Americans at the left. In the street below are Japanese horses laden with munitions of war. Seated by the wall we see two Japanese civilian onlookers; may be they are attachés of the army, or correspondents; beyond them, standing against the wall, is a large native gun, called a gingal or twoman gun. Many of these were brought into requisition by the Boxers, while the regular soldiers were supplied with the Austrian army guns, considered by many the most effective weapon on the field.
We will pass along to that projecting point on the wall, at the right of the Japanese soldier, and face in this direction, that we may see a continuation of the wall back of us and the aspect of the street running parallel with it down on our right. On the map see red lines, connected with the number 60, which branch to the east from near the South Gate.