88. Lama Priests at the Tung-ho Kung, the Great Lama Temple, Pekin.
These are Lama priests who gathered around us while we were looking at the prayer-wheel. In ordinary times it would be impossible to induce them to stand to be photographed, but the allied armies hold the city, and like all Chinamen they are more meek than they are wont to be; they are afraid to refuse a foreigner's request; yet I do not like to practice duress on men of cloth, even yellow cloth, so I offer them money and they hesitatingly comply. They are of all ages, some venerable in the service, and some mere boys preparing for the priesthood. They spend their time in idleness or in studying the doctrines of Buddha. The head of the Lamasery is called a Gegen, who is considered a living Buddha. Their studies embrace metaphysics, ascetic duties, astrology, medicine and the arts of laziness. Their regular devotions are performed in the different courts, and when great numbers are engaged at the same time in their chants and millprayers the effect is very curious, especially if the mills should not be well lubricated, and a universal creaking mingles in the chant.
The Gegen is usually a Tibetan, as are many of the members. Of course this temple is a monastery as well as a temple. Buddhism in northern Asia is called Shamanism, from the Chinese words Hwang-kiao, which signify yellow sect, because the Buddhistic order of priests the world over wear yellow robes. The pontiff of Shamanish is the Grand-Lama or Da lai Lama at Lassa. Mongolia and Tibet swarm with Lamas. The Lamas have a decalogue which is not unlike the Mosaic in many points: (1) Do not kill. (2) Do not steal. (3) Do not commit fornication. (4) Speak not falsely. (5) Drink no wine nor eat flesh. (6) Look not on gay silks or necklaces, use no perfumed ointment, and paint not the body. (7) Neither sing nor dance, and do no sleight of hand tricks or gymnastic acts, and go not to see or hear them. (8) Sit not on a high, large couch. (9) Do not eat out of time. (10) Do not grasp hold of living images, gold, silver, money or any valuable thing. The tenth will be a sore test for the average mortal. The great resemblance of the ceremonials of the Buddhists and those of the Romish Church has led to much discussion as to which has copied from the other. The distinguished scholar and writer, Abbe Huc, enumerates some of the similarities as follows: "The cross, the mitre, the dolmatica, the cape which the Lamas wear on their journeys, or when performing some ceremony out of the temple; the service with double choir, the psalmody, the exorcism, the censer suspended from five chains, which you can open or close at pleasure; the benedictions given by extending the right hand over the heads of the faithful; the rosary, ecclesiastical celibacy, spiritual retirement, worship of saints; the fasts, processions, litanies, and holy water-all these are analogies between ourselves and the Buddhists." Some claim that Lamaism and Buddhism have copied their ritual from Romanism and others that Romanism has derived its forms from paganism, and there have been those who argue that the simulation of the ceremonials of the two religions is a machination of the devil; however, ceremonials are but ceremonials, and we will look again at these representatives of Lamaism in their dirty yellow, cotton robes, and with their shaven heads. The tenets of their religion may be well enough and their rituals well enough, but what sort of an exposition of a religious life can we expect from men and boys of types like those before us. I suppose in all religions we must expect great discrepancies between tenets and their exemplification. The Lama's tenth commandment says: "Do not grasp hold of living images, gold, silver, money or any valuable thing," and some of these priests followed me at least a half-mile clamoring all the way for money, and extortionate money; at last I compromised for a Mexican dollar. There is a fine bronze lion beyond the priests with a much better countenance than most of these disciples of the Da lai Lama at Lassa.
Speaking of these priests to a well-informed man who had lived in Pekin for years, he said: "This great Lamasery was once the residence of Chien Lung, Crown Prince in 1770. For that reason it could never be used for private purposes again, so it was turned over to the Lamas from Mongolia. These Lamas represent a distinct type of Buddhist, and are perhaps the most worthless human beings on the earth. They are very bigoted, but do not understand why or wherefore they are Buddhists. The Emperor supplies their needs by a generous subsidy each year so as to keep them quiet. The Chinese from time immemorial have bought the subjection of the peoples who might be called their conquered enemies. Before the siege, it was risky business for foreigners to attempt to visit the Lamasery, for he might not be allowed to leave except by the payment of a large sum of money. These priests are filthy in their habits and have no regard for the common virtues of truth and decency. The Living Buddhas (Gegen) sometimes get into trouble among themselves, and one day a Gegen was seen going down the street with blood flowing down his face."
The Tibetan Lamas have another large temple outside the north gate of the city.
We are now to leave this extreme northern end of Von Ketteler Street, and are about to take a walk of two miles south to the Ha-ta Gate. So we will just hand over to these Tibetan Lamas that which they are forbidden to take or grasp hold of," and then away. At the Ha-ta Gate where we obtained our first sight of the city, we will follow along the top of the wall eastward until we reach the east wall, and this we follow northward for only a short distance and we reach the Imperial Observatory. Note on the map the red lines and the number 89 near the southeastern corner of the Tartar City.