87. In the Court of the Great Lama Temple-showing Lama Priest Turning Prayer-wheel, Pekin.
You may remember our second position in Pekin when we looked froin the Ha-ta Gate due north, along what is now called Von Ketteler Street. We are now at the extreme northern end of that street, by the northern wall of the Tartar City, within the court of the chief temple of the Lamas. It is called by the natives the Yung-ho Kung, or Lamasery of Eternal Peace. The formation of the temple, like all Chinese buildings, is a series of courts surrounded by low, tile-roofed structures on every side; so that it is impossible to make a photographic view to show more than one side, or a section of one of these courts. In the center of this court is a pavilion at which a number of priests are whiling away their leisure, and that is to say, their lives; for their life-time and leisure signify about the same thing. This gives you an idea of the character of the many connected edifices all of one style, chiefly roof as before mentioned; there is, however, one building much higher than the rest. It contains a colossal wooden statue of Maitriya, the coming Buddha. Notwithstanding its mean appearance, this temple is considered to be one of the most complete in all its arrangements for study, living and worship in the country. I suppose when I say it is considered to be the most complete, I should explain that it is thus considered by the natives. My own opinion is that it is one of the most dirty, dingy, smoky, ramshackle establishments in the whole world and filled with one thousand five hundred Mongolian and Tibetan ignorant fanatics, called priests. Soon I shall present to you a group of these priests, and if you are somewhat of a physiognomist, I will submit whether my apparently uncharitable appellation be unjust. First, though, we should observe the priests before us. The priest nearest us assumed that dramatic pose of his own accord; I did not prevent him, and am now glad I did not, as it helps my definition of the group you are to see later. Three sit by the wall of the pavilion, and another turns a praying-machine; he likewise strengthens my unkind arraignment of the yellow-robed conclave which dwell here. The praying-machine should be explained. We claim to lead the world in labor-saving machinery, and yet we have not perfected a genuine praying-machine. That we have sometimes soporific approximations we all know, but no bona fide mills. You see a priest couchant by that small upright frame with the typical Chinese roof over it; he is turning a prayer-mill by a short stick held in his hand and attached to a crank at the base of a vertical cylinder or box. The prayer is written on paper and attached to the box, and every time it revolves the writing is prayed. In this way a skillful operator can turn out a great many prayers in the course of the day. Sometimes the crank is attached to a water-wheel, and sometimes to a rude wind-inill, in which cases the devotee can retire while the mill prays on through the night. A Lama who establishes one of these plants may, with a stiff breeze blowing, consign himself to the arms of Morpheus, and in the morning find himself the very ne plus ultra of holiness. These priests ought to be good men, as both the elements of the omnipotent "Feng-shui" are utilized to that end (the Chinese fates, called Feng-shui, reside in wind and water). In the native land of the Lamas the praying-machine is universal. At the door of every house the family machine stands, and every one who enters is supposed to give it a twist for the benefit of the family. By every stream that affords water-power one may notice a small building which would ordinarily be taken for a water-mill, but which in reality is a prayer-mill, where every turn of the wheel is sending to Heaven the stereotyped invocation: "Om Ma-ni Pi-mi Hom "-O, the jewel in the Lotus, Amen!
But I promised to present to you a group of these men sanctified by machinery. We need only turn around a short distance to our right.