37. Travelling in Interior China-Our House-boat on a Canal near Kinkow (600 Miles Inland).
Here is the house-boat with my companions and crew, all on deck. I need not designate my companion; his négligé betrays him. My captain stands at his right, his high rank and authority indicated by what appears to be, according to rustic parlance, a "boiled shirt." Our cook left us at this place, becoming suspicious we might never return, and our interpreter, who is clad in black, assumed the duties of the runaway cook. The coolies skulk behind and turn away their faces, fearing the camera. You see the door leading into our little cabin, which had a table in the center and a seat on either side used for a bed at night. The cook's quarters are behind the cabin. Our evening retreat, when the mosquitoes would permit, was on that spacious forecastle where the crew are now assembled. I fear there are many archaic devices about this boat which you will fail to notice. Have you observed the wrought-iron, handmade anchor projecting over the bow, consisting of four radiating hooks? Have you observed the detached rudder suspended at one side and beyond it a cross-bar projecting a little over the free-board? On the end of this a large sculling oar is placed to propel the boat when away from the shore or when becalmed in deep water, where poles cannot be used. Have you observed the pike-poles and the gang-plank? I am sure that within the cabin and in the cooking department are curious things you cannot see. There is a pantry and a storeroom all in that small place. It is not an Atlantic liner; but withal, it left with me memories more interesting than those obtained from the floating palaces of the sea. An itinerant barber has come out from Kinkow, not far away, to prospect our ship. Do not imagine the barber and his client are the only spectators. A vast crowd has been purposely held back from our boat.
You may get some idea of the character of the soil and the appearance of the country near the river. The whole valley is alluvial, and in its fertility and freedom from stones reminds me of the valley of the Nile. You can see the height of the banks, showing the depth of the soil, and the canal, which was originally a creek or river, is here quite deep, and this continues until we reach the high lands. A typical craft from the interior, propelled by a large sculling oar on one side of the boat, is passing down on the other side; it is probably on its way down to Hangkow or other of the great near-by cities, with farm produce. There is a house on the other side, but it is hidden by trees, so that we can see little of it. But we must go aboard our house-boat and order our captain to start. You may know by the glossy surface of the water that there is no breeze for our sails; therefore, the tow-line is thrown out, the gang-plank is hauled in and we move slowly on our way. Our meek little cook had prepared for us a breakfast that would satisfy anyone but a man who has no business to travel; and now he was busy in the galley, which was, indeed, more a hole than a galley, preparing our second meal. When it was on the table it quite astonished us, and while we ate we eulogized the cook and made, I fear, some unflattering remarks about French chefs. In the afternoon we reached a beautiful lake some twenty miles across. A light breeze, at times, enabled us to use our sail, and when the wind failed the coolies resorted to the cumbersome sculling oars. We made the farther side of the lake a little after nightfall, where we entered a second canal, in which we tied up, our crew not being able to work continuously day and night. On the following day, after we had been several hours in this canal, we entered a small fishing village where the banks of the canal were lined with villagers of both sexes in charge of "lift-nets." This lift-net may be seen in every port of China; it consists of a horizontal net about twenty feet square, attached to a bamboo frame-work projecting over the water from the shore; it is lowered and raised from the shore, and each net requires one attendant; it is lowered until it sinks to the bottom, where it remains for a time, or until fish have assembled over it, when it is raised for a draught of them. This was a novel and interesting scene and we ran our house-boat ashore, thinking to obtain a view of the villagers in their droll piscatory vocation. We landed and returned along the bank near the line of nets. I planted my camera in a suitable position, when, instantly, along the whole line, they left their nets and came pell-mell toward us and around us. Our attempt was, of course, obstructed. We called our "boy" (every servant is called a "boy in the East) to persuade them to stand away from the camera; his appeal had no effect; their curiosity increased and the crowd increased; they at once showed an unfriendly manner; one fellow landed from a boat and came strutting forward with an air of importance and authority and lifted the cloth of the camera to see what was under it. I took it out of his hands and motioned him back; he straightened up, swelled his chest, compressed his lips and dove his head under the cloth; no self-respecting photographer can brook any liberties with his apparatus. I squelched his officious and impertinent meddlesomeness with more vigor than politeness. He swelled up in importance again, but kept two yards. off; his dignity was damaged; he looked vengeance and sneeringly cried out, "Fanqwei! fanqwei!" There was no possibility of getting a picture, the crowd was rapidly increasing, and the half-mile line of nets was deserted. Our boy said, "Very bad people here!" We had not brought along our guns, and we concluded it would be better to be nearer our defenses. We started for our boat; but no sooner had we emerged from the crowd than we were greeted by a volley of mud and lumps of CHINA THROUGH THE STEREOSCOope.
clay (there were no stones). We ducked and dodged all the way back. Dodging missiles from Chinamen was a humiliation to which we had not been accustomed. In a mood to even up honors, we brought our guns on deck and donned our cartridge belts; there was a silent but hurried retreat all along the line. I gave Childs my gun to carry, took my camera, went on shore and we advanced to the place from which we had retreated: but like the clans of Culloden, "they were scattered in flight." I took my view, but it sadly lacked life in the foreground. This showed, as has been shown in a thousand other instances, that the Chinese lack the fighting instinct, or, in other words, that they are cowards; but sometimes will fight a little with ten to one. We came off ahead, but it might have been otherwise, only for the alluvial soil which offered no stones. Childs said, on our return, that he had heard of the "Battle of the Roses," but he had never anticipated a "Battle of Mud." This was evidently an unfriendly village and we did not care to linger. Certain villages are friendly and others unfriendly. A village is often composed of a clan, or family line, where one disposition characterizes the whole village; here we had fallen in with an anti-foreign breed and as soon as we reached our boat, our order to the captain was: "Walkee, walkee, chop, chop!" (Start at once).
Our coolies kept tugging at the tow-line until, some time in the afternoon, when we spied a typical native plowman quite near the bank of the canal. He had a queer, home-made wooden plow attached to a grim and vicious-looking water-buffalo. It was a capital specimen of a rustic plowman, and I decided to go ashore for a stereograph. I placed my instrument at the point of his nearest approach; when within about twenty paces. the buffalo halted; I knew something about the idiosyncrasies of a water-buffalo, and that when he stops to look at a foreigner, something is going to happen. The plowman himself was nearly as much bewildered as the buffalo was not only bewildered but afraid; he lacked the bravery of the fishermen; he had no crowd at his back; he walloped the suspicious beast with the driverope; it would not budge. I saw it was now or never." I put my head under the camera cloth; this, to the buffalo mind, was horror added to the horrible-a foreigner behind an infernal machine! It was a snort and a lunge; the plowman went down; the buffalo went off as if fired from a catapult; a cloud of dust arose; the plow flew from side to side and over its back; the beast's terror was increased by shouts of laughter from Childs and the crew; his speed increased with his increasing terror; the plowman, glad of an excuse to run away from us, pursued like mad. The poor beast was soon far in the distance, enveloped in a cloud of dust; it was a level plain, and the last we saw of the water-buffalo was a black spot in the horizon, with a whisking crescent over his back made by the flying plow. I failed in getting the stereograph, but succeeded in getting a laugh. On our return trip several days later, we recognized the same field and saw that no plowing had been done in the meantime. We wondered whether the buffalo had yet stopped.
During the afternoon we came to a point where the canal expanded into a marsh and lake. At one side of this marshy plain, a large town was located on a hillside, extending down to the edge of the water. We saw banners flying and a great assemblage of people covering the side of the slope, and decorated boats seemed to fill the broad stream before the town. Our boy explained that it was the day of the dragon festival. This is one of the most important fête days in China. It is not a good day to be in a Chinese crowd in a remote and hostile province; but we thought we would experience no difficulty in making our way past the town in our boat. Boat-racing is an important feature of the day; several boats curiously decorated and filled with men rowing with short paddles, dashed back and forth before the town. While these picturesque race-boats were passing and repassing, I stood on the bow of our little boat attempting to catch views as we moved through among them. This seemed to attract the attention of the great crowds on the shore, who commenced to set up a derisive yell, which is quite peculiar and as distinguishable as the Indian's war-whoop. A Chinese crowd, like any other crowd, is always more inflammable and aggressive on a holiday, and a vast assemblage greatly augments individual courage, especially among Chinamen. We halted for a while to witness the strange proceedings; the jeers increased; then came a shower of mud; next a volley of stones; several waded into the water up to their waists around our boat; another volley of stones nearly demolished our cabin window. At this we jumped into our little cabin and brought out our guns and slipped in cartridges; with this threat those in the water moved back a little; the jeers increased, and a hundred voices were shouting, Fanqwei! fanqwei!" and punctuating their raillery with stones. We ordered our captain to move on; our crew at this point were all on board and propelling the boat with the sculls. The missiles came so furiously at one time, that Childs leveled his gun, when I called to him not to shoot. Fortunately, at this point, we were thirty or forty paces from the shore on which the enraged mob stood, while the number in the water near us, on the opposite side, were held back only by our guns; our coolies were as glad as we to get away from this ugly and cowardly band. We ducked stones and urged on the coolies. The mob followed for a half-mile along the shore, shouting, no doubt, all manner of ribaldry, but foreign devil was all we could understand. We soon entered a small lake where they could no longer follow, but until we were out of sight we could hear their peculiar yell of derision.
We anchored late that night in the canal, and got away by daylight in the morning, that we might make the end of our boat journey, some ten miles farther, and have the whole day for the last twenty miles, which must be made in chairs. At nine o'clock in the forenoon we came to a few houses scattered along the bank of the canal; here we must debark and find sedan chairs; they could only be obtained in a town five miles away. Two of our coolies were dispatched in haste; they returned near noon with chairs and chair-coolies. We had victuals for two days in readiness. Guns, ammunition, camera, etc., were packed in the chair. Our "boy" must go afoot with several straps of cash over his shoulder-cash to buy eggs in the country, to buy hot water, to mollify the mercenary-cash was our only credential, and the "boy" had yet nearly thirty pounds on his back, the equivalent of five Mexican dollars, or two and onehalf dollars in American money.
We had now reached the foothills of the mountain region. Twenty miles is a good ride in a carriage; it is a long journey in a sedan chair, in a rough mountain district, where there are no roads, where one has to pass many villages, through countless rice-fields on narrow mud dykes, along rocky declivities and up steep slopes. Our chairs were of the rustic order, made of bamboo suspended on bamboo poles ten feet long. The teetering sensation was not disagreeable; but there were other sensations. All persons do not know that a rice-field is, at times, a pond of water, at other times a pool of mud. These fields are separated by ridges of clay sometimes a foot, sometimes two feet above the mud or water. To pass around the corners of the mud-fields, on narrow ridges, without being precipitated into the mud, was the most precarious part of our journey, and in this we did not quite succeed. I would surely be charged with exaggeration should I attempt to say how many times our chair-coolies were pitched over the narrow dyke into the deep mire while attempting to turn the sharp angles, we ourselves only escaping a mudbath by clambering to the treacherous path till the coolies could be extricated. During the afternoon we stopped in the outskirts of a village for lunch. We were, of course, at once surrounded by curious villagers who showed no unfriendliness, but were greatly interested in our modern firearms, and Childs entertained them by bringing down birds from the highest treetops. Only one incident occurred here worth relating, an incident which shows how tricky and unscrupulous the Chinese are in ways of extorting money. An old woman hurried into our presence leading a child and affecting great distress of mind; a stream of blood was trickling over the child's face from a scalp wound. She showed us the wound and, jabbering explanations, pointed to our guns, intimating we had shot her child. My companion broke into a roar of laughter and showed how we had been shooting altogether in an opposite direction and away from the village in which she lived. The natives about us saw the shooting and also laughed at the woman's stupid and futile scheme to obtain money. The trifling scalp wound was maternally inflicted and her plan proved a bungling and unsuccessful bit of blackmail.
This was the first village in which we had found the inhabitants friendly. The chair-coolies got a feed of rice from the villagers, and we ate our lunch hemmed in by a staring group of onlookers, which was not altogether agreeable, because one is liable at any moment to be colonized by a drift of eleemosynary insects from leeward, and this prospect is somewhat de-appetizing. Another plain of rice fields lay before us which involved unpleasant liabilities and greatly retarded our progress. But we got across with a single catastrophe. I heard, proceeding from Childs, who was behind me, great volumes of thrice-underscored English. I looked back and saw one of his coolies submerged in the liquid soil, the other at the front, upon the ridge of clay. The mud just reached the seat of the chair and my friend sat quite helpless, holding his gun out of the mud with one hand and projecting his feet upward. The dilemma was only for a moment, as his loud and intensive language worked. as an explosion of dynamite and brought the submerged coolie to the surface and, presto, to the path. As usual, there was no damage except to the coolie's clothes, and that was not serious, as they consisted only of "onepiece shirt." A great part of our journey by chair thus far had been across these rice fields, or "sloughs of despond," as Childs called them, but now we had reached the first mountain slope. We rested a few minutes at a wayside inn, where our coolies regaled themselves with tea. We found tea-stands every few miles. In many places the tea stood at the door as a sort of a free-lunch trap for wayfarers; in other places it must be paid for at the rate of a cash" a cup. The cups are small and five or six of them would scarcely equal in quantity an American "schooner "; besides tea, about the only drink to be obtained at these inns, is "sam shui," a sort of home-made wine. Western whiskies and other civilized death-dealing and fiend-producing decoctions are unknown in these rural districts.
Late in the afternoon we were among the lower mountain slopes and scattering patches of tea plants began to appear. It was up a steep mountain side, over a crest and down again into a table-land covered with patches of paddy (growing rice in Eastern countries is called paddy) until nightfall, when we entered a broad, fertile valley watered by a small river.
Darkness overtook us and we had yet several miles to go before we reached our destination at a place called Matin. Our chair-bearers had become considerably exhausted and stopped frequently to rest at places on the wayside, where curious rustics would peer around us in the darkness, sometimes thrusting their faces under the front of our covered chairs. Our surroundings were now becoming weird and dismal. Our men sometimes left us for a few minutes to quench their thirst at some teahouse; we could hear persons passing and repassing in the darkness.
Once we became separated for an hour; Childs's men had taken a different path. Mine waited in a farm-yard till our boy had brought in Childs; meantime, I sat in my chair surrounded by bogey-men; some came with paper lanterns which they held up before me to get a look at a "foreign devil." My companion had both guns in his chair; when he was brought back we apportioned our armament and resolved not to become separated again; we knew now we had no house-boat to fall back upon and trusted we might not fall into a dragon-festival crowd. Not till near ten o'clock that night did we reach the town of Matin. Our chair-coolies bore us through narrow, winding alleys for a great distance. The streets were dimly lighted with paper and tin lanterns and we were set down in the heart of a strange town in the Province of Hunan, we were told, but from subsequent examination of maps I believe we were just on the boundary between the provinces of Hupeh and Kiangsi (see map of Eastern China, Map No. 2).
At once we were surrounded by the usual crowd of night-prowlers of every description. We had no idea where we could spend the night. We told our boy to ask some one to take us to the mandarin. The news of our arrival, even though late at night, spread rapidly; the street was soon a solid mass of struggling humanity; it was difficult for our chair-men to make any headway in such a crowd. They clung to the sides of our chairs and peered in at us; they trampled each other down. It had a good effect when they learned we were to go to the mandarin's. Our "boy" and the chair-coolies slowly wedged their way, by inches, through the dense mass. The mandarin's palace (?) was a half-mile away; and after we emerged from the crowd it followed us to the door of the buildings said to contain the high functionary we sought. It required several minutes of pounding at a great wooden door before any response came; at last some one, I suppose a servant, arrived. Our instructions to our "boy" were about as follows: "Tell the good mandarin we are Americans, come to see Chinese Tea-man-have no place to sleep-will good mandarin let us sleep any place inside his palace?" It should be remembered our "boy" could speak only a little English. We waited long for a reply and the crowd around us at the door was constantly increasing. When the reply came it was not very encouraging. It was: "Mandarin cannot do." Childs, who knew the mandarin character pretty well, said he thought a stronger appeal was necessary-that we must see the mandarin himself; so, to get out of the crowd, by sheer effrontery, we pressed within the outer door; but the crowd followed.
After much wrangling and persuasion by a number of mandarinish flunkies, the crowd was pressed back and the door made fast. Childs with his gun, accompanied our "boy" into the presence of His Excellency and stated the urgency of our case,—that there was no hotel; that there were plenty bad men outside; that our hong at Hankow "makee" buy plenty tea; these and numerous other necessitous lies induced the mandarin, after a full half-hour of talking, to allow us to sleep in an empty room. The servants found two rough doors for us to sleep upon. We were too glad to be within walls to complain of a bed of hard boards, and after a midnight repast we stretched out upon our doors to await the strange disclosures of the coming dawn.
I have spoken of the mandarin as "His Excellency," and of his domicile as the palace; but there did not appear to be any excellent qualities about him or anything palatial about his residence. He was ordinary in appearance, stupid and boorish in manner, devoid of hospitality and actuated alone by suspicion. His home was a tileroofed, one-story agglomeration of sheds made of sundried brick without and finished within in the crudest fashion with hand-sawed lumber. He was plainly a country mandarin.
When we arose in the morning we found the town of Matin situated in a beautiful and well-cultivated valley, flanked by lofty, near-by hills with towering mountains in the distance. The valley was checkered with paddy fields, and on the hillsides were patches of tea alternating with shrubbery. The tea plantations were a great disappointment to me; they consisted of only small, stunted bushes twelve or fourteen inches high, in scattered patches that were worthless as showing a typical tea plantation. Considerable quantities of tea were brought in and pressed at this place. I have been in many tea plantations in India, in Ceylon and in Japan, and I considered the plantation at this place unworthy a photographic reproduction; but I felt I must go out on the hillsides to look around and possibly make a view. The first crop of tea had been picked, and no tea-pickers were in the field.
I thought a group of tea-picking girls with their teabaskets would be an improvement to the landscape. So we set our "boy" with the mandarin's servants at work to hire a group to go out with their baskets. This we found to be difficult of accomplishment, because of the strange suspicions that seemed at once to fill the minds of the whole people. After long persuasion and offering tempting straps of "cash," a few girls were assembled for the field. Then the mandarin decided to go out also; but he was under the impression that we were tea-merchants. When that "thing of evil," the camera, was brought out all was changed; the mandarin sneaked back into his quarters; the tea-pickers, one after another, gradually disappeared. National suspiciousness had overpowered them all; we were there for some evil purpose, they thought. We left our guns in our room to lull fear and suspicion, but the camera was an omen of evil to be dreaded even more than our Martini-Henri rifle. In profound disgust we started off for the hillsides, followed by a motley rabble of boys and men. We reached the foothills, where we looked down upon what you may see also.