64. Wheelbarrow Transportation, China's Best and Cheapest Freighters-At the Boat-landing, Tientsin.
The wheelbarrow is both the cart and the carriage of northern China; it is one of the few things that has attained a higher development in China than in any other part of the world. It has reached the dignity of a commercial institution. You can see in those before us the unusual construction, the great size of the wheel which is placed in the center of a heavy frame which projects in all directions; observe also how far apart the handlebars are placed in order to giver power to balance. A rope or strap extends from the handle-bars over the man's shoulders; this gives power of equilibrium and distribution of weight. The upper part of the wheel is protected by a frame. A system of ropes is used to bind on bulky cargoes. Some are adapted to carrying passengers, and some chiefly for heavy loads of cargo of any kind. I have seen five passengers in one barrow. Passengers are often carried between Shanghai and Pekin, a distance of six hundred miles. One man will sometimes carry on his barrow a half ton of cargo. A strong wheelbarrow coolie will carry two passengers and make twenty miles a day on a daily allowance of twenty cents; that would be ten cents for each passenger, or one-half cent per mile about one-fourth the lowest rates on any of our railways. Why should a Chinaman favor the introduction of railways?
At Shanghai we referred to the wheelbarrow as a passenger vehicle, while here you may see it used in transporting all kinds of commodities. They have been brought into requisition in great numbers by the different nations to transport army stores from the boat-landing at the river front to the different places of encampment or to storage places for supplies. This small army of wheelbarrows is in control of the Japanese, as you may see by the flag borne by one of them; a very small flag is also attached to the front of each barrow-a flag with a white field and a black disk in the center. You may have some idea of the general use into which they are brought when you remember that all the armies are supplied in the same way. These wheelbarrow men are often careless about keeping the bearings of the wheels lubricated, and when such is the case the creaking noise under a heavy burden is excruciating. Try to imagine this entire force tearing on with heavy loads and dry axles, and you may realize the susceptibilities of the human tympanum in relation to harmony and discord. But the most interesting thing about these quaint motors is, that in case you have a quantity of merchandise to be moved from one point to another you can have it done by these coolies with their barrows for much less than it would cost you by modern carts, trucks, wagons or railways, and done with greater care and less destruction to the goods transported.
Notice the building on our left with the American flag flying over it; it is the headquarters of the Quartermaster's Department, and I call your attention to it because when I am ready to start for Pekin I must come to this office and present a letter to General Chaffee from the State Department at Washington in order to get from him a permit for transportation on one of the commandeered small cargo junks which sail from the landing before that office. You can see some of these boats now at the landing beyond that great mound of army supplies over which the flag is flying. That is the point from which we are to sail when we leave Tien-tsin. We are here looking up the Pei-ho. You will notice two of our own soldier boys whose free and easy manner and comfortable negligée has occasionally elicited unfavorable criticism from foreigners, this rough and ready undress being regarded as slovenly and unmilitary, especially in parade, but we believe in sacrificing appearance for the best fighting conditions. These two are typical American soldiers off duty. They scrambled to balance themselves on this perch; they swore at the coolie to "hold still"; they wanted to go into pictorial history, and here they are statuesque as you please, with the drollest of wheelbarrows for a pedestal. Before coming here we saw the Boxer prisoners; here we see, beside the wheelbarrows, the common coolie; they appear in no way different from the Boxers, showing how largely the I-HoChuan is made up of the lower element of the population.
From where we are standing we stroll directly up the river for a mile, cross to the opposite shore and enter a mile further on a native village in which many of the native Boxers were sheltered during the first attacks on the settlement. On the map see number 65 in red near the second eastward bend of the river.