84. Sacred to the "Son of Heaven"-Grand Throne in the Emperor's Palace, Forbidden City, Pekin. We stand before the Dragon Throne. This is the finest and most important hall in the Palace. It is surely the chef-d'œuvre of Chinese artisans, architects and sculptors. Notice the deeply paneled ceiling and the vast elaboration of carving on everything. The screen behind the monarch's seat of state is an intricate lace-work in wood. dragon, of course, holds the first place, indeed all the places, in ornamental designs. The throne itself is a capacious and massive affair carved in black wood. The floor of this great hall is marble; the floor of the dais on which the royal chair stands is exquisitely inlaid. The incense The urns and figures are of bronze; the ascent to the throne is by three steps. There is no scarcity of fine moral sentiments inscribed on tablets and walls; that motto in large characters over the throne is, as nearly as translatable into English, "Purity and Righteousness," and on the vertical tablet at the right hand is, "The first step in adjusting the universe is to keep constantly in mind the shaping of one's own character." As to whether there is any palpable misfit about any of these fine ethical sentiments surrounding the throne of the Chinese Empire, there may be diversity of opinion. The other inscriptions are too incomplete or indistinct for translation. Williams says in his "Middle Kingdom": "Here the Emperor holds his levees on New Year's Day, his birthdays, and other state occasions; a cortège of about fifty household courtiers stand near him, while those of inferior dignity and rank stand in the court below in regular grades, and, when called upon, fall prostrate as they all make the fixed obeisances. It is in this hall that Titsingh and Van Braam were banqueted by Kienlung, January 20, 1795, of which interesting ceremony the Dutch Ambassador gives an account and since which event no European has entered the building," until, we may now add, the allied armies of Europe and America entered it, in 1900.
There is another hall where the Emperor comes to examine written prayers to be offered at the state worship. There is another where the highest degrees for literary merit are awarded every three years. And beyond this stands the "Palace of Earth's Repose," or, stripped of metaphor, the Imperial Harem. Another building farther north and near the northern gate is called the "Hall of Intense Thought," where offerings are made to Confucius and other sages. There is also the Imperial Library and the Ancestral Hall, where the members of the royal family offer homage to their departed ancestors. There are other buildings too numerous to mention; but the number of persons living within these sacred walls is not large and nearly all are of the line of the alien conquerors. How many times servile subordinates have stood in the court near where we stand and made the nine regulation obeisances before the "Son of Heaven," seated on this throne; and we come and go and neither make obeisances nor "Chin, chin" to anybody! How pretentious and absurd kingcraft appears to democracy! We have seen enough to convince us that while certain things show infinite labor and some skill, the general appearance and condition of this place, show Tsz' Kin Ching, or Carnation Prohibited City" to be a parody of highsounding names.
We leave the palace at the northern gate, near the foot of the Mei-shan. We then turn to the left and stop to inspect a Pekinese cart. Our position and field of vision is given on the map by the red lines, marked 85, which start near the northwestern part of the Forbidden City and extend slightly northeast.