85. Typical Springless, Seatless, Chinese Coachlooking toward Coal Hill, in Imperial City, Pekin.
There is scarcely an illustrated work on China which does not give a picture of this celebrated Pekinese vehicle. It is entitled to a world-wide celebrity for its negative and infernal qualities; there is nothing which shows the sluggish inaptitude and inadaptability of the Chinese mind better than a Pekinese cart. Its evolution covers millenniums, and yet its unaltered primordial capacity for inflicting torture on the traveller cannot be imagined. Before coming to Pekin a friend warned me against these carts, and now I realize he was a true friend; but his warning did not qualify my anticipation-to know, a person must ride in one. I had but a single experience—I rode a mile only, and yet I know. They do not look different from other carts, but they are different. I imagine that the passing of the Car of Juggernaut over one's body would produce a wooing sensation as compared to the jolting of a Pekinese cart. They are not only without springs, the axle and wheels are very heavy, the latter filled with bolts to give strength; the tire is of heavy iron and its outer surface, in nearly all carts, is filled with knobs or bolt-heads an inch high and an inch apart, though the cart before us lacks the customary knobs on the tire. The heavy tire protects the felloe, and the knobs are intended to protect the tire. The solid upper structure is bolted unyieldingly to the axle. There is no seat. Besides all this there is an inherent mysterious rigidity about the axle which I have never been able to understand. The interior is very narrow and very low, and the only entrance is at the front. I wished to visit the Summer Palace out on the western hills thirteen miles distant. The missionaries told me I must take a cart; and I have not yet quite forgiven their poor but well-meant advice. I engaged the cart, placed my camera and box and other paraphernalia within. There was no seat, and I secured an empty box as a substitute. I perched on this and we were off. Chinese horses are small, but they are somewhat lively, at least it seemed so to me on this occasion. I expected to find the horses as slow and plodding as the people, and that it would be a leisurely walk of thirteen miles. The horse at once struck an impetuous gate; the road was of course the worst possible. My apparatus was soon flying about in the most reckless fashion; my hands were both occupied in holding fast to my extemporized seat, using my elbows as springs; ruts and bottomless mud-holes are plentiful, but the one gait is maintained, and I bumped from side to side; my hat went off and scampered with the apparatus. I was at once convinced it was to be the roughest locomotion I had ever tried, and I have tried nearly everything. Others had travelled in that way, even some missionary ladies had preceded me to the Summer Palace in a similar cart, and both my pluck and endurance were at stake. I hoped for the road to become better, but it became worse. I feared the destruction of my camera and plates, yet I could not quit my hold. The jolting was excruciating; it was not the mere possibility of dislocation of joints; I would not mind that; it was the more serious matter of telescoping the vertebræ. I pitched up and down and from side to side. With grim clutch I supported this churning and pounding for something over a mile, when I quite lost my temper; I did not swear, but was verily in a profane mood. I kicked the driver, who sat over the cross-bar in front as a signal to stop. This he did, when in sheer desperation I removed my portables, ordered the cart to return, engaged two street coolies to accompany me, and made the journey and return, twenty-six miles, on foot. The agonies of this, my first and last attempt, to exploit a Pekinese cart would have been appreciably diminished had I known the proper way of adjusting one's person to the exigencies of the vehicle. No seat is ever used, but instead mattresses and cushions are placed on the bottom and occupants recline and do not attempt to sit erect; but even with the body thus disposed, the thrashing and pounding to which one is subjected is but slightly modified. In a single day between sunrise and sunset I have made one hundred and seventeen miles in a springless, Russian post-wagon with relays of horses; but that was as nothing compared with a few miles in a Pekinese cart. The Chinese have devised many unique modes of torture, but none of them show so successful an application of means to an end as this homicidal cart. There is another style of cart used in the capital, but it is only used by royalty. In the royal cart the wheel is placed behind and the cloth trimmings are all in imperial yellow.
Do you recognize the land-mark which has been several times pointed out from our former positions? I mean the Mei-shan, or Prospect Hill, or the Coal Hill or Mountain, for it is known by all these names. Now we are quite near and can see distinctly some of the pavilions on the different points of elevation. That is a French soldier peering at us on the right.
Have you noticed the strange gate-like structures between us and the hill? We will walk over for a nearer view of the latter. On the map this new position is given by the red lines connected with the number 86 just north of the Forbidden City.