89. Imperial Observatory, One of Pekin's famous Sights on the Eastern Wall.
This famous observatory, called Kwang-hsiang-t'ai by the Chinese, is mentioned by all writers on Pekin. It is visited by all who desire to see the most interesting things about the northern capital. The occupation of the city by the Allies during the Boxer war has brought this old observatory into still greater fame. If you have expected to find a great imposing structure like those you may have seen for astronomical purposes in Western countries you must be disappointed. It is not the building that is notable; in fact you may now see there is no building, only a terrace or a tower built into the wall and some fifteen feet above it. On the top of this tower are placed the astronomical instruments that are considered so wonderful. Here we see them only at a distance, and they appear small.
Soon we shall go nearer where we can study them in more detail; but it is not the instruments in themselves which we are to consider; we must remember the time at which they were made. Those we see on top of the tower, a magnificent bronze celestial globe, a sextant, a sun-dial and quadrants, were all made in 1674 by order of the Emperor Kanghi, under the direction of the Jesuit Father, F. Verbiest, who was at that time President of the Board of Works. The large azimuth instrument at the left was a present from Louis XIV to Emperor Kanghi. Those instruments were made over two hundred years ago, and when we look at them we are astonished no less by the scientific knowledge displayed than by the marvelous mechanical skill requisite for their construction. We are still more astonished when we go to a court below at the left hand of the tower and find three instruments made altogether by the Chinese, two planispheres and an astrolabe, made nearly four hundred years before Kanghi gave his imperial order for those we see on the tower. You may remember when we started out on our itinerary I observed that in China one is constantly in a two-fold state of mind, that of admiration and that of disgust. In looking at these astronomical instruments made over two hundred years ago and some of them over six hundred years ago, we are once more stirred with admiration. But for the other state of mind we have only to look around us here to see the usual neglect and dilapidation, the wall in ruins and overgrown with weeds and shrubbery.
There sits a native before us with his closely shaven pate defying the fiercest sun-rays; and lest you should take him to be an astronomer who has wandered a little from his instruments to ponder some profound astronomical problem, I will have to tell you he is only my porter waiting my next movement which will be to the top of the tower for a nearer inspection of the famous instruments.