72. One of the Typical "Freight Trains" of Chinalooking East on Legation Street at a Caravan from Tien-tsin-Pekin.
It is three-fourths of a mile to the eastern end of this street on Ha-ta-men or Von Ketteler Street, heretofore pointed out to you. On the right-hand side of the street, one-eighth of a mile distant, we can see a portion of the German Legation building from which the German Minister departed on his fatal mission on June 20. To the left, the building next to that tree, with a flag-pole above it, is the entrance of the Spanish Legation, where I will escort you later to see the Foreign Ministers leaving the Legation after an important sitting. One-fourth of a mile from where we stand, on the left-hand side of the street, is the French Legation, which we shall visit next. Behind us, one-eighth of a mile, is the American Legation on the same side of the street on which we stand. Opposite to it is the Russian Legation. And surely you have not forgotten the location of the British Legation behind us and to our left by the canal. When we again ascend the wall we shall look over the American Legation.
The camel train is a typical scene in the streets of Pekin. Carts are used to some extent for transportation,
but for long distances the patient, loping camel is the chief burden-bearer. In our own country we see freight trains of sometimes well-nigh a hundred cars. In northern China we may see a caravan of a hundred camels. They come from points south and from the interior carrying produce; for you may be reminded that agricultural production is quite limited in the vicinity of Pekin. It is too far north. We find here the beginning of that barrenness which reaches its culmination in the sandy deserts of Mongolia. How these meek and uncomplaining transportation drudges must rejoice in the prospective completion of the Siberian Railway with its branch to Pekin! For ages caravans like this have been threading their way over mountains and burning sands for two thousand miles between Siberia and the Chinese Capital. We do not see the farther end of the caravan before us; it may be a mile back.
You can see the barricade of brick thrown up on the wall of the bridge; this defensive preparation evidently anticipated the occupation of the wall facing this by the enemy. We do not here see many traces of shots on the walls of the buildings; this is owing to the circumstance that we are here in the line between fires from opposite directions. The attacks were chiefly from the east and from the west-from the Ha-ta Gate and beyond it to the east, and from the direction of the Chien Gate and the west and northwest. Should we go back to the American Legation we would see the west sides of the building riddled with bullets; and should we go eastward till we reached the east sides of the French and German Legations we would find the same condition. We shall go where we can see each of these Legations in a few minutes. But first let us glance at those figures nearest us in the You can see some French soldiers in the distance, and a couple of American soldiers to our right on the bridge, and the familiar looking telegraph poles and wires which a stranger might be surprised to find in Pekin.
caravan.
Let us now go forward along this Legation Street just one-fourth of a mile to the French Legation, then turn around and look back in this direction. On the map, about half way between our present position and Von Ketteler Street, find two short red lines, connected with the number 73, which branch off toward the left or west.