56. Destructive Guns from H. M. S.
"Terrible"
and Distant Burning City Fired by their Shells -Tien-tsin.
These hot, smoking guns are not the first of the afterthe-battle scenes; before reaching this point we have passed lines of wounded men, borne on stretchers; just behind us, in a canal in line with the wall on which we stand, are flat-boats filled with wounded Japanese. These boats are pushed slowly along with poles, and the spectacle they present is pitiful in the extreme; the bottoms of the boats are crowded with wounded men, some sitting, some lying, all in the hot sun; they are just brought from the muddy field where they have lain and moaned away a dreary night. The silence is funereal; they are not dead men; they are the wounded, many of them mortally; yet no word is spoken, even by the men poling the boats slowly along. The litter-bearers are as silent as pall-bearers; the tender consideration for the suffering wounded is as solemn as the reverence for the dead. Remembering the dreadful all-day battle, one can scarcely resist an impulse to lift one's hat when passing the familiar uniform of our own boys, spattered with mud and blood-stained beyond recognition, with a crumpled hat sheltering a pallid face from the fierce sun. It is better that I cannot show you all the scenes of war.
Now let us examine these instruments of destruction that have added red pigment to the war-picture behind those distant city walls. The gunners have retired to a slight shelter in the wall near where we stand; they are smeared with smoke and dust; they have slept by these guns. Yesterday, from daylight till darkness, these two grim machines were hot with unremittent firing. Now, the enemy's guns are silent, and these two, with many others, look restfully and victoriously toward the destruction they have wrought. We see the smoke still rising from the South Gate directly before us and, to the right, from the burning city; columns of smoke have been thus rising from different parts of the city for several days; a great part of the city is laid waste, as we shall see when we enter it at that South Gate a little later. We are nearly a mile from our former lookout on the roof and not yet in line with the ground over which the Allies advanced. We are looking northwest toward the south wall of the city, and here we get an idea of the pools of water which had to be crossed, though on the line of the advance there are no sheltering banks or ditches, nor buildings like those we see before us.
But we cannot linger here; we must hurry along the top of the wall to a point opposite the West Arsenal, in the rear of this mud-wall, where the exhausted and temporarily repulsed Allies lay on their arms during the past night. Many wounded have been brought to that place. Many dead also.