81. Within the Forbidden City and Home of the Empress Dowager-Harmony Gate from Elevated Walk near Canal, Pekin.
We are at last within the Sacred City, where, until now, none of all those who have visited Pekin have ever been; within grounds from which all the foreign ministers and high functionaries of state have been excluded. And now that we are within, what are we to see to reward a mysterious exclusion for all these centuries? The expression of all who have passed through these royal enclosures is that of disappointment. Royal domiciles the world over have taught us to expect to find therein a lavish expenditure of wealth in art and architecture, and why not expect such things in this venerable arcanum of Chinese and Manchurian sovereigns? On the other hand, in all that we have thus far seen of China we have not been encouraged to expect great things, except, probably, in walls. Decay and dilapidation have characterized all places under native rule from Canton to the Capital, and why should we expect it to be otherwise here? We will not find it otherwise. Let us venture to look around. We are in the first court and within the great South Gate of the Forbidden City; we have turned a little off to the left and ascended for a short distance an inclined causeway leading to side buildings. We look diagonally across the court toward an interior gate, called "Tai-ha-men." Already since leaving the Chien-men we have passed. through four stupendous gates. What an egregious fad in gates and walls! And how little whims and fancies develop, in time, into monstrous follies! But to the Chinese taste these gates are things of beauty. The most we see here is roof. It is thus over the country; buildings are mostly roof; and one roof is not enough; there are generally two, and often many attachments. Everything in China has an uncared-for appearance. Look at the weeds and grass growing up from the pavements; that canal is without water; and look at the shrubs growing from the chinks in the walls. There is grass and wild herbage enough about this court to graze a flock of goats; neither is this owing to the absence of the royal occupants; it is characteristic of the palace grounds, and it is characteristic of China. Those massive rails before the gate and around it and along the canal near us are elaborately sculptured in white marble; but when once finished they are left for time and neglect to write their traceries upon them. The yellow glazed tiles of the roofs and the dark green ornamental painting on the interior wooden work of the gate afford an agreeable contrast to the colorless city outside. Those pillars of the gate are of wood, as is the entire inner structure. The two bronze lions guarding the approach are works of art, at least of the Chinese order, and were probably cast during the Ming reign when the bronze age was in its zenith.
We have made a cursory survey of all within our view except the solitary living figure, a half-grown lad, who, I scarcely need say, is not a member of the royal household left behind, but my own solemn-visaged, though very serviceable native boy. He was rather averse to standing before the camera, but did not see his way to escape decently, being in my employ. This accounts partially for his demure countenance, although in his general state of mind he was cross, but honest. This is a Christian boy furnished to me by missionaries. They said his father was chased away by the Boxers and had not been heard of since. The family were reduced to poverty and the boy was manfully trying to do what he could to support them. He took care of the room which I occupied for a month, sometimes acting as my porter. He had more honor than the average Chinaman. On one occasion I hinted that something had disappeared from my room; this touched his pride so painfully that he left me for twenty-four hours, but returned at the end of that time after wages due him and making me to understand that "he no stealee boy." We thereupon became reconciled until another day when we had a serio-comical falling out because I found him wiping my dishes-I should not say dishes; dishes is too plural for a plate and a cup-with his coat-tail. The culmination, however, was a protest with no serious results; we became reconciled again, and I furnished a dishcloth and we parted friends.
When we pass up that balustered approach to the gate we shall tread upon dragons sculptured in bold relief in the pavement blocks of marble. Passing through and entering another smaller court, on the farther side of which stands one of the royal halls, we turn to the right and look westward along its front. See map.