20. Interior of a Tea-house, the Chinese National Resort, Shanghai.
Seated on one of these black stools we are permitted to look around; if you spy any drunken men about do not fail to call my attention, because, while I have been many times in these tea-houses, I have never yet seen any in such a condition. A tea-house usually consists of two large rooms furnished with many small tables and square stools, as you see here. The rooms are decorated with handsome mirrors, rich carving in wood, and elegant painted wall-screens. You see the tops of these tables are of mottled marble; the frame-work and the stools are of rich black wood. The rooms are lighted by large lanterns of glass set in wooden frames, which you can see suspended from the ceiling. There is a fine French-plate mirror just behind that little fellow advancing with a plate of sweetmeats. In the rear of this room there is a large kitchen where professional cooks, noted for their cleanliness, are employed in making all sorts of pastry. A peculiar feature of these kitchens is the large stock of boiling water kept on hand and sold at two cash a kettleful-two cash being about one-eighth of a cent. This is a rather clever bit of economy where fuel is quite expensive, and, some time, perhaps, stands for the sale of hot water may become a paying business in America when the exigencies of vastly increased population compel a more grinding economy. As guests enter and seat themselves at these tables, trays of sweetmeats and fruits of many sorts are placed on the tables. occupied. Small cups of tea, well made but never strong as it is taken in Western countries, are also placed before the guests. When the temperate, harmless beverage is finished, guests, the occasional guests, are expected to leave and give place to others; but the man of leisure may be expected to spend his excess of time here in teainspired sociality with friends and neighbors. To increase the hilarity proprietors often engage vocalists and professional story-tellers and reciters who sing and relate and recite all day long. Smaller rooms are connected with these places in which those addicted to the opium habit can retire to inhale the fumes of that seductive alkaloid. But, you will say, is not the opium habit as pernicious in its effects as that of alcohol? In a word I would answer, No. I think the two habits do not admit of comparison. Old men are found here who, between their pipes and occasional cups of tea, pass away many weary hours. All classes are found here; but not both sexes. It is not considered proper for females to frequent the tea-houses. Public thoroughfares are naturally chosen for tea-rooms; they are, therefore, not infrequently found adjoining temples and yamens. This, then, is what I have called the national resort of China, with seldom anything more than tea for a beverage and sweetmeats and the pipe as indulgences. You see these men at the tables; the trays of cakes and fruits have been mostly removed; the small teacups may be refilled. The delicious tea costs less than a cent a cup; there is no drunkenness here; there are no bar-room brawls; there may be the mild merriment and sociability that come of theine, but not the maniacal madness of alcohol. I leave further comparison between the beer-saloon of the West and the tea-house of the East for your own making.
You may see two pipes standing on the table by the teacups; they are not opium-pipes, but a not uncommon style of metal tobacco-pipe. The horizontal bowl is filled with water; the small upright bowl for the tobacco is attached to the top of the water-bowl; a small quantity of tobacco is used at one time; the smoke is drawn through the water and thereby cooled and purified. Water-pipes in endless varieties are used, not only in China, but in all Oriental countries; so between sipping draughts of mild tea and whiffing a smoke well freed of its harmful alkaloid, the Chinaman whiles away his leisure.
Notice the old man by the first table; according to Shakespeare he must be a great thinker; for the peerless poet makes Cæsar say: "Yon Cassius has a lean and hungry look; he thinks too much; such men are dangerous." One lady noticing the sharp, thin face of this man remarked, "When the Chinese are skinny they are so awful skinny!" Well, I must tell you that this lean, hungry-looking specimen was my guide at this teahouse; that I found him not only hungry-looking, but hungry, indeed; for no sooner had we entered the place than he ordered a cup of tea for himself, and ordered his cup several times refilled.
I smiled at his many generous draughts; but when leaving the place I learned that although his face was thin, there was no lack of “ cheek"; the several cups were all charged to me. The cup was small and the bill was small, but the "cheek was huge. This was the third time in the one day's service that this old picked-up guide had "squeezed my pigeon"; but I should explain this curious phrase, which is current and well understood in all parts of China where the so-called "pigeon English "is spoken. “Pigeon," or "pigin," is as near as the Chinese lingual organs can come to saying business. A Chinaman, for instance, who wishes to say, "That is not my business," will say, "That no my pigeon." All Chinese servants, without exception, will in some way get a commission or a profit out of any handling of money for their employers. If you send a servant to buy an article he will in some way get a percentage out of the transaction. This is called "squeezing the pigeon." This habit is universal and often extremely tantalizing. It is so thoroughly engrafted on the Chinese business code that severe and repeated floggings will not check it.
Now that we have taken our first lesson in pigeon English, I will return to my guide the tea-drinker. On the same day this cadaverous-looking old Cassius accompanied me to the native city where he pretended that certain fees were required, a part of which, I am sure, he kept himself. Later in the day he engaged to find a native woman who would allow her compressed feet to be photographed; he found one who would thus expose her feet for two dollars, as he said. I afterward learned that he paid the subject one dollar and kept the other himself. Thus at this tea-house was my "pigeon squeezed "for the third time in one day. As we reached the street I entered a rikisha" and said to my hungry old guide: "You squeeze my pigeon three times, I squeeze your pigeon one time," and deducted from his pay three "squeezes," and we parted.
During my stay in Shanghai a desperate river pirate was captured. He had previously committed several murders; but his last offense was the gouging out of a man's eyes. He was taken in this crime and brought to the native city where he was tried before a Chinese tribunal and condemned to die by what is known as the cage."