69. West from Ha-ta-men (gate) along Huge Ancient Wall between Tartar and Chinese Pekin-Scene of a Desperate Charge during Siege.
We are in Pekin. Here is the great wall stretching away before us toward the west, the wall which separates the Tartar from the Chinese City. The latter lies on our left or south, the former lies on our right or to the north. The center of the Legation, or besieged district, lies about a half mile in front of us on the right side of the wall. We entered at a gate one mile in our rear and followed along the left-hand side of this wall, passed through the gate beneath us and ascended by a causeway on the right side to the top of the wall, and then by a flight of steps to a floor in the wooden tower about thirty feet above the wall, on which we now stand. You can see a canal or moat running parallel with the wall on our left, but it seldom contains water. Notice particularly the gigantic proportions of this wall, much greater than those of the Great Wall of China, which are only about twenty-five feet in height and from fifteen to twenty feet in thickness, while this wall of the Tartar City is forty feet in height, fifty feet in thickness at the base and thirty-six feet at the top. Note, too, the massive buttresses flanking the wall to a thickness of sixty feet at intervals of a hundred yards; it is paved on top with large gray brick and surmounted by crenelated parapets, but shrubbery and weeds cover this pavement in many places. On the top of those flanking towers are scattered unmounted, ancient Chinese cannon, such as you may see illustrated in Webster's Pictorial Dictionary under Chinese cannon; others of a later period, but yet ancient, and mounted on rude wheels, are found in the tower on which we stand.
Keep clearly in mind the location of the gate a mile behind us where we passed within the wall, the same at which the American troops entered. The English force came in on the same side at a gate three-fourths of a mile southward, and followed a principal thoroughfare in the Chinese City, running parallel to this wall, until they reached another thoroughfare running at right angles to the street already mentioned and passing through this wall at a point half-way between us and the gate which we can see far away on the horizon. Yonder gate in the distance is a very important one both in connection with the Boxer war and in reference to its important central location between the Chinese and Tartar cities. It is the Chien Gate found on the map as the center gate of this wall. Later we shall stand upon the ruins of its tower, on the very spot where the brave Reilly fell while in command of his famous battery. The Americans passed through that gate on their way to the Legations, after passing along that open space by the dry canal on the left of the wall. At certain points a troublesome fire was directed upon them from the top of the wall; but not from the portion of the wall some distance in front of us, as that part was captured by a daring sortie from the hemmed-in Legations. To the right of this wall, not two hundred yards away, is a parallel street; it is called Legation Street; and on or near that street the Legations are located. You may know, therefore, how this wall overlooks and commands the Legations, which you will understand better when we advance to a point abreast of them. The gate over which we stand and the one in the distance are a mile apart. Three miles away you can see the faint outlines of the Umbrella Pagoda, and beyond you can dimly descry the western hills, thirteen miles away. The Summer Palace of the Empress is located on the slopes of those same hills, which we may visit later.
We are looking upon historic ground; every prospect bears a record of thirty centuries of human life and activity, and events of the past year have added another chapter. Some of the most thrilling events of this latest chapter transpired on this wall between these two gates. The English and American Legations are to the right of a point midway between them. You see a partial barricade of brick just before us, and beyond the small building; you see another at the second small building, and further on you see others extending half way across the top of the wall; still further on there is one extending quite across; that is nearly abreast of the English Legation. That point of the wall, for some unaccountable reason, the Chinese never occupied; they had approached it from both gates, fighting and holding their ground with great tenacity until only a short distance was unoccupied.
This gate, over which we are standing, was occupied all through the siege by the Chinese, and from here the Legations were badly harassed by cannon fire. Between this gate and the Chien Gate the American soldiers were on guard and were so worn with constant watching that Captain Meyers thought the wall must be abandoned. Minister Conger thought to abandon the wall would only mean death to all the Legations, as the Chinese could occupy such an advantageous position and shoot directly into the foreign lines. As a last resort a midnight charge was decided upon, hoping thereby to rid the wall further west of the Chinese and give more space for the Americans. The gallant Captain Meyers, with a force of fiftyfive men, consisting of American, English and Russian marines, were to make the charge. It was a desperate undertaking for fifty-five men to attack unknown hundreds, perhaps thousands, in front of them. But it was well and bravely done. The wall was gained, fifty Chinese were killed. Captain Meyers was severely wounded, but he finally recovered.
This well-planned and bravely executed sortie at this moment was justly considered the salvation of the beleaguered inmates of the British Legation; for if the enemy had succeeded in planting their guns on the wall between these two gates the raking fire at close range would inevitably have destroyed all in a brief space of time.
A branch canal from that dry one on our left leads north beneath the wall at the point I have just mentioned in line with the British Legation. The opening beneath the wall, called the Water Gate, was barricaded; but it was through this that the first of the relief force reached the Legation. A missionary lady in the Legation told me that the first men she saw were a Sikh soldier and an English officer who had crawled through the Water Gate beneath the wall. The first greetings were: "I am so glad to see you!" and the reply, "I suppose you are!"about as brief and expressive as Cæsar's famous speech, "Veni, vidi, vici."
Before we stroll along the top of this wall to a place where you can see the barricades and the Legations, I must ask you to face directly towards the north from the top of the wall, below the tower in which we are now standing.
Turn to the map of Pekin and find the two red lines which start slightly east of the Ha-ta Gate and branch to the north wall of the city. The number 70 in a circle is connected with their starting point and is also found without a circle at the end of each line. We are to look over that considerable portion of the Tartar City which lies between those lines.