80. Count Von Waldersee Escorted by Officers of Allied Armies through Lines of U. S. Infantry, toward Sacred Gate, Pekin.
Now we are on the southern side of the palace area looking toward Coal Hill, which is hidden behind the gate. Before us we see the German Field Marshal, Count von Waldersee, passing through the Imperial City on an official tour. At the same time we are able to get a good view of the entrance to the Palace or Forbidden City.
The gate on which we stand is similar to the one on the opposite side of this grand court, except that it has no flanking wall and towers such as those we see. There is a vast room just behind us stored with immense quantities of swords, bows and arrows and other war material. The whole court at our feet is paved with brick, and the central drive or promenade is flagged with heavy stone, and this flagging and paving extends from the Chien Gate to and within the Palace area, a distance of three-fourths of a mile. Notice again the triplicate form of this entrance. You will remember that at the Chien Gate we stood on the spot where the gallant Captain Reilly fell. I then told you that the guns of his battery were trained on the sacred city and the gates leading thereto, in order to clear the way for the advance of the troops. If you look carefully you will discover traces of shells from Reilly's guns-grim mementoes for the Empress when she returns to the Palace; for at that time she was fleeing southward toward Paoting-Fu.
After the occupation of the city by the Allies, the American and Japanese troops were placed in charge of the Palace grounds. A portion of the Ninth Infantry were encamped within this court. At this time you see them lined along both sides of this Imperial highway as a mark of military respect to the Field Marshal. You see three mounted officers between a guard on white horses and the escort following. The central figure, partially hidden by the German flag at the head of the escort, in the rear of the three mounted officers, is the Field Marshal. He passes through and leaves the court by a gate to the left. His escort embraces officers from the different armies. The American Sixth Cavalry lines the way between the gate on which we stand and the next gate behind us toward the Chien-men, and representatives of troops from other nations occupy positions along the route followed.
Before we can enter yonder sacred portal we must obtain a permit from General Chaffee or General Yamaguchi who at the time are in command of the American and Japanese forces. Very naturally after a place so important as this is thrown open for the first time in history, there is an irrepressible desire to peer within; restriction is necessary and permits are required. After some delay these are received; then a further delay is entailed because one must wait until permits have been granted to a number, when an officer is detailed to accompany the party. Previous arrangements have been made with the native caretakers of the Palace, who also must accompany us to see that nothing is taken or disturbed. Notwithstanding this precaution and vigilance nearly all portable articles in the buildings have disappeared.
We will descend and enter at that middle door, where we find a number of well-dressed court guards, who will follow us at every turn. Within the court beyond we shall pass to the west side and look toward the northeast. See red lines on the map connected with the number 81.