44. Missionary Refugees Fleeing from the Boxers. Landing at Cheefoo.
The missionaries are here landing from sampans, carrying their children and portable belongings; they lined timidly from the boats to the hotels-a matron leading a child, a father carrying a babe, a band of coolies carrying baggage, a man with a tennis set, another mournfully pushing a disabled bicycle-all with the same dual expression on their countenances, that of long anxiety and final deliverance. I was surprised to see so many children among the missionaries, but my surprise was quite moderated when I learned that there is a premium on progeny in the mission fields; and that for each child born an annuity is added to the income of the lucky parents. I could not but wish that this benign principle were applied to other vocations. The ship chartered by the Consul lies out at anchor; some are landing here, others on the beach near the hotels we saw from our last position. You see the sun-hats worn by the missionaries of both sexes. Even these northern points in China for two or three months in summer are intensely hot.
To be prepared for an unexpected attack, many of the Europeans kept sampans in readiness by which they could, on a moment's warning, make for the warships. Taku is two hundred miles distant, and all merchant ships stop at Cheefoo. Yet I found it next to impossible to obtain passage to the former place. Warships proceeded only to the allied fleet, which lay ten miles off shore at Taku. Correspondents from all parts were arriving and hounding consuls and naval commanders for transportation to the front, or at least to some point nearer the scene of activities. War conditions were everywhere manifest; it was every one for himself; no reliable information could be obtained about anything; all kinds of rumors were afloat. Several times a day I visited all the shipping offices and the consulates seeking for transportation. Europeans who had homes in the vicinity of Cheefoo moved into the settlement, bringing their more valuable portables.
Every one sought information, but could fine none; there was a perplexing mystery about all movements, and mystery always increases apprehension. After I had been in Cheefoo three days, this apprehensiveness reached a climax. Russian agents had engaged several hundred coolies to work on the Siberian Railway; they were placed on board a ship for transportation to Vladivostok when some misunderstanding about pay arose; then a suspicion was aroused among them that they were to become conscripts for military service in the Russian army. They left the ship in rage and consternation, came ashore in sampans, when thousands of coolies and the rabble of the city gathered around them until the streets near the landing were blocked by a mob of many thousands. This was at once construed as a Boxer uprising; the people of the settlement were thrown into a frenzy of terror; women fled to the small boats on the beach and were soon well out toward the warships; a small band of volunteers which had been organized for protection and composed of clerks and shopkeepers instantly donned their cartridge belts, seized their guns and formed across the street, at the farther end of which was a solid mass of infuriated coolies held back by a cordon of native police. Missionaries with Winchesters and citizens with shot-guns joined the volunteers. Every man's face showed an expression of fight "to the death." Messengers had been sent to the Taotai (mayor) of the native city to call out the native troops. He soon arrived in his official chair, accompanied by his usual retinue of subordinate functionaries, followed by a band of soldiers armed, not with their guns, but with bamboo flagellators. After a conference between the Taotai and the European officials, the former harangued the mob, but it refused to disperse, whereupon he ordered the troops to charge with bamboos. Then followed the funniest onslaught I have ever seen. It was a spectacle that was suddenly changed from impending horror to the irresistibly ludicrous; a band of imperial soldiers, backed by a line of native police, rushed upon this impenetrable mass of bareheaded coolies, pelting heads and barebacks with relentless fury; the cracks of the bamboos resounded through the streets; they laid on heavy and fast; the front lines of the mob took the brunt, as the great mass was too solid to be quickly moved. Those in the forefront howled with pain. The Taotai sat in his chair and urged on the attack; the vigorously laid on strokes rang like pistol shots; after several minutes the dense black crowd began to fall asunder, when the soldiers could better distribute their blows; soon the wilderness of black heads was a pellmell of ignominious flight, and what might have proved a bloody uprising was averted. The small plucky band of shopkeepers and missionaries returned to their several places of abode, the terrified women who were in sampans off shore were rowed back, and the consternation gradually subsided; but it was a baptismal scene in the Boxer war not to be forgotten, and showed, moreover, the magical efficacy of the bamboo as an arbitrator. After five days a German merchant ship arrived, bound for Taku: I secured passage and on the following day reached the naval fleet lying ten miles off the mouth of the Pei-ho, in the bay of Pichili.
It was a magnificent array of warships and capable of inflicting punishment upon the Boxers if they could have been placed within range. Our ship anchored with the fleet over night; on the following morning we entered the mouth of the river amidst the ships and forts whose deadly conflicts only a few days before had sent a thrill of horror over the civilized world. We landed on the south bank of the Pei-ho, proceeded a few hundred yards back from the river, and ascended a pilot tower, from which we obtained a panoramic view in the very center of the scene of action which resulted in the capture of the Taku forts.
Turn with me now to Map No. 6. This map gives us a sketch of the Pei-ho River from the Pichili Bay to a point about six miles inland, including the sites of the forts at Taku and the town of Tongku. Find the number 45 in red, inclosed in a circle, and the two red lines which branch from this circle toward the north. We are to stand at the point from which these lines start, and shall look out over the territory the lines inclose.