83. Home of the World's Most Remarkable RulerEntrance of the Palace Occupied by China's Famous Empress Dowager, Forbidden Pekin.
City,
Were it not for the different ornamental objects of art and worship, you would scarcely know we are before another building and in another court, the similarity in the appearance of structures is so great; and yet this is the private room of the Empress. On the pillars in the porch there are the same carved tablets and similar faded and weather-worn awnings, but the bronze articles of decoration are of a higher order. They are for the gaze of the imperial eyes and are of finer mold. The incense burners are more delicate and slender and more richly decorated; the marble bases on which they stand are covered with six or seven patterns of ornamentation. The base and pedestal of the dragon are beautifully ornate in design and workmanship. The dragon himself, as though conscious of posing before royalty, looks his prettiest, giving the most gracious and graceful curves to his wonted contortions; his hair is stylishly set up in fluffy tufts; his mustache has a dainty twirl, and while his mouth lacks the curves of Cupid's bow, he probably knows that at times, in art, the most hideous is the most beautiful.
Even in this court of the apartments of the Empress, we see weeds intruding, other than widow's weeds; we see also cedar trees which are well-nigh sacred in China as in many Eastern countries; they are especially the trees of the cemeteries.
The watchmen are still upon our tracks; two are those who were with us in the last court. One of the two, attired in dark silk garments, has probably gone to skirmish the advance members of our party, while another takes his place to complete the indispensable lucky number. There is something almost pathetic about the shorn authority of these palace guardians. Never before have they seen even the highest of their kindred, outside the royal family within these walls; now soldiers, civilians, photographers and all sorts of "foreign devils" are tramping through and desecrating the sacred grounds. What, then, must be the feelings of the Empress and the Emperor and Prince Tuan and other members whose mighty highness has been so long unapproachable and invisible, to see the despised Westerner in full control and peering into all the sacred nooks of their much-walled and inviolable asylum? Surely they must think hereafter, if they have not thought heretofore, that, in colloquial parlance, there are others. They have been punished and humiliated before, but they soon regained "face," i. e., prestige. To dislodge a Chinese idea is a great undertaking.
While we are before the apartments of the Empress I should tell you that only a small portion of her time is spent here. Her summers are spent at the Summer Palace among the western hills, thirteen miles from Pekin, which we shall visit later, and her favorite retreat within the city is a private palace, near the lake in the Imperial City, onehalf mile west of the Forbidden City. That palace was occupied by Field Marshal Count von Waldersee while the allied armies were in the capital and has since been burned down.
We will pass through the Hall of the Empress, which scarcely contains anything worthy of a stereograph, even if the smallness of the rooms and the poor illumination did not prevent photographic operations; then we enter another building called the Tai-ho-tien, or "Hall of Highest Peace," which is apparently the most imposing structure in the Forbidden City. It is over a hundred feet in height and elevated on a terrace twenty feet above the ground. It is ascended by successive marble steps ornamented with magnificent balustrades in richly sculptured marble. The main hall is two hundred feet in length by ninety feet in width and contains seventy-two pillars; in the center of this is the Dragon Throne.