16. From the Imperial Bank of China (N.) along Whangpoo River, over the English and American Quarters, Shanghai.
There is the busy Whangpoo to our right. It is a half-mile in width here and turns first toward the northeast, then again to the north; so that its confluence with the Yang-tse-Kiang and the anchorage of the large ocean vessels lies directly north of us in line with the direction of our vision and twelve miles distant. On our arrival we landed about a half-mile farther down the stream, to the right of the farthest building we can see. In our "rikishas" and with our wheelbarrows laden with luggage we came along a street a short distance in the rear of those far-away buildings; then, along the street before us, which is the center of the English quarter of the European settlement. The American quarter begins at the bend in the river and extends down stream farther than we can see. The French quarter, which we shall see from our next position, lies behind us and extends southward to the walls of the native city.
Our more distant surroundings are considerably changed from what they were at Hongkong. Pekin is now about six hundred miles directly in front of us; the homes of millions of Chinese lie off to our left, while the island empire of Japan lies directly to our right.
You need scarcely be told that there is little in this scene immediately before us that is typical of China; the buildings are not Chinese; the well-paved streets lined with shade-trees, and the green lawns near the river, in the distance, are not Chinese; just beyond, at the end of that promenade next the water, you see a small, round dome that is just within a paling that surrounds beautiful public gardens; they are not Chinese; those tall posts bearing myriad wires that span the streets tell of a busy, ceaseless, commercial enterprise that is not Chinese. There are other poles in the distance, poles to bear the emblems of patriotism; off in the American quarter we can see three flags in the breeze; they are a half-mile away, but I imagine I can see the stars and stripes; they indeed are not Chinese. Those tall chimneys off in the American quarter symbolize modern manufacturing industries that cannot be Chinese; those dismasted clipperhulls in the river are not junks, but old "have-beens" refitted to receive cargoes of opium, which, owing to heavy duties, is not landed but held in these hulls for reshipment; neither are these Chinese; so you must see that on the river-front, at least, little can be seen to tell you we are in China or in even the Orient. A few things, however, are not quite familiar to Western eyes-the sampans and house-boats are huddled along the waterfront and around the landing-stages; the "rikishas " "are bounding along the street below us, drawn by Chinese coolies or "rikisha-men." This jinrikisha mode of locomotion has become one of the institutions of the East. You see one of them below us bowling along at a lively gait with a European gentleman on the seat; you may see others waiting for customers. They are everywhere; at railway stations, at boat-landings, at churches on Sunday,
75 standing before hotels and shops; they take the place of the cab, the tramway and the trolley; indeed, in many respects they are more convenient and much less expensive than the cab. Their speed is about the same as that of an ordinary horse-carriage, while they will carry one to any part of the city for five cents, or, by the day, at ten cents an hour. The "rikisha-men" have wonderful endurance and maintain a constant run; but they are said to be short-lived.
The post and cable offices are on this street, to our left, between us and the public gardens; the Custom-house, the banks and most of the principal offices are here also. You would like to know whether European Shanghai is confined to this street along the river? By no means. You may travel westward or away from the river for a mile and still be within a densely populous city; but only a few streets away from the front will you find modern buildings; beyond this, although still within the European quarter, you will find the buildings and population largely Chinese. For, with business instincts, the natives are not slow to locate in the European portions of every city. Later we shall go to see a street in the Chinese portion of European Shanghai. In this city we have the best opportunity possible of comparing and contrasting the East and the West, Chinese civilization with European; but before making further comparison we will change our position to the tower of the Customhouse, which is a little behind the large building beyond the trees on our left. From that point we shall look in the opposite direction, southward, and up the river toward the native city.
On the map of Shanghai, Map No. 5, the red lines which start from the Custom-house, just north of our first position, and branch toward the southeast to the map margin, give our next field of vision. The number 17 is connected with these lines.