79. Looking South over the Palaces of the Forbidden City, from Mei-shan (Coal Hill), Pekin.
The Shrines of Mecca are not kept more fanatically exclusive toward "Christian dogs" than is this Forbidden City at our feet toward all the world save the Imperial coterie.
In all Oriental countries, the policing of cities is very imperfectly done, hence the people learn to shut themselves in and the streets are very uninteresting. Until about one hundred and fifty years ago the Forbidden City was not entirely closed to visitors. Then a wretch took advantage of his privileges and tried to assassinate the Emperor. From that day to this, not only this city, but all imperial places are closed to spectators. The Chinaman is naturally generous and sociable. It is his environment and lack of governing ability which has resulted in his present spirit of exclusiveness. The Great Wall was built to keep out nomadic horsemen who troubled their borders. Walls of cities were built, as they say, to make thieving less easy and the capture of thieves more easy. Walls are built in front of public offices and homes to keep out evil spirits rather than to prevent people from looking in. The Chinaman is more afraid of wandering ghosts than any man alive. Spirits, to him, are everywhere present and must be kept out if possible. Doubtless if we knew the reason for the erection of many buildings in the "Sacred Enclosure" it could be traced to superstition.
Let us gaze for a little on this debarred city which the highest foreign dignitaries have not been permitted to enter for centuries. The entire palace enclosure is surrounded by a massive wall faced with tile glazed with imperial yellow. The wall is flanked by a broad moat, which is also walled with solid masonry. Three streets extend across the grounds; three halls, in line north and south, embrace the main buildings; three and nine are sacred numbers; therefore you must expect everything in threes or nines. Before each of the three principal halls are threefold gates. The gate in the wall around the hill on which we stand is triple; the large gateway before you, which is the northern gateway of the Palace, is also triple. Seven is the Jewish lucky number, but the Chinese fates (feng-shui) know no numbers but three and the multiples thereof. It is their numerical sacred trinity. This vast space appropriated to private palaces for the Emperor and the Empress contains a lake, gardens and pavilions; it has a fine temple dedicated to the Imperial ancestors. We see countless adjunct structures in all parts of the ground. It would be impossible to learn all the different uses to which they are put. Many are occupied by eunuchs, of whom there are about two thousand in the palace inclosure. There are concubines, I suppose, and guards and bannerman, and servants of many kinds, and court flunkies innumerable, all requiring quarters within the grounds.
One of the great mistakes made by this dynasty was in subsidizing all the soldiers who helped establish the throne two hundred and fifty years ago, as well as their descendants. Hence these Manchus expect to be carried on the shoulders of the Emperor, and when their stipends grow small, as naturally they must in the course of time, they make up the deficiency by stealing public funds. There is no court in the world where there are so many loafers and useless flunkies who still have a sort of right to be there. The Empress Dowager is the keenest monarch who has governed China for many years, but even she dares not weed out the worthless trash in the palace.
Up to the present time the public has not been admitted even to the ground on which we stand. Friends who had previously visited Pekin advised me to endeavor to gain the top of this hill by stealth, as the only way of obtaining a panoramic view of the Forbidden City; but stealth is uncalled for when European troops cook their rations in the pavilion we occupy. It is another circumstance which admits the old adage about the "ill wind." The exigencies of war, therefore, have gained for us, not only a panorama of the forbidden ground, but also of the sanctum sanctorum itself, to which I will introduce you after we walk around to the opposite approach of the sacred enclosure.
Do not forget that we are here looking directly toward the Chien Gate, which is now over a mile and a half south of us. We will leave the Mei-shan, turn to the left and pass outside the west wall of the Imperial City, and then southward till we reach Legation Street, and then swinging to the right on a line with the Chien Gate, we face north and enter the gate of the Imperial City and continue our way northward over a flagged highway and through another massive gateway until we reach a third prodigious gate; this we ascend and from its lofty second story we look north toward the gate which opens into the Forbidden City. On the map we see by the red lines connected with the number 80 that we are to look north from the southern wall of the Imperial City.