5. Canton, the Vast Metropolis of China, from the Pagoda on the Northern Wall.
We are now standing on a low hill on the northern side of the city with the city wall just behind us, and looking a little east of south toward the Canton River, which we see in the distance. The greatest commercial emporium of Asia is spread out over the plain before us, extending eastward and westward for many miles. That vast hive of human life is encompassed by a high brick wall seven miles in circumference, and within that wall a million human beings are toiling for a livelihood. Almost an equal number have outgrown the limits of the ancient wall and spread out into the suburbs and across the river. We cannot from this distance look into one of the narrow busy streets; but this we shall do on our return.
Here we must be content to look over that vast urban world and reflect. A distant panoramic view of any city always leaves much for the imagination, just as when we look at the exterior of a single house, the interior life is for the imagination. Notice the low one-story brick buildings with tile roofs. The brick is not red, but drab or gray; no paint can be seen anywhere; very little is used. in the whole empire. But you notice here that, although the Chinese are innocent of the expensive æstheticism of paint, they are not ignorant of the use of whitewash.
We can observe an occasional clump of trees; but no high chimneys. We can see no church spires; but there are one hundred and twenty temples down in that great sea of lowly homes. There are fourteen high schools and thirty colleges. Of course, they are not Yales or Oxfords, but they are somewhat educational.
People are carried from place to place through the narrow winding streets in sedan-chairs, and it is probably not unsafe with respect to truth to say that not one wheeled vehicle could be found within the entire range of our vision.
If by some power the real inwardness of all the social and industrial life in this panorama could be disclosed to us, what a marvelous scene we should behold! There are palaces after a fashion; there are hospitals; there are arsenals; there are ancestral halls; there are prisons; there is the imperial mint; there is the execution ground where beheading is done; there are scores of markets, including a cat-market and a dog-market, where these domestic friends are sold for food. There are seventeen thousand people engaged in silk weaving; and not in great factories, but in small dingy homes where handmade bamboo looms turn out the delicate fabrics with which our stores are filled, and those magnificent brocades which charm our fancies. There are fifty thousand people making cloth; and there are over four thousand shoemakers; there are great numbers of wood-carvers, stonecutters and workers in iron, brass, ivory and silver.
It is a world of ceaseless industry; it is likewise a world of vice, as I have already intimated, and has acquired an infamous celebrity for profligacy and corruption; it contains the greatest number of the worst specimens that can be found in the empire. A retiring viceroy once expressed himself thus about Canton: "Deceit and falsehood prevail everywhere in this city, in all ranks and in all places. There is no truth in man, nor honesty in woman." At one time there was an organized band of twenty thousand robbers. There are countless tea-houses and opium-joints and gambling dens. But we cannot gaze longer over this broad panorama of busy industry and unspeakable vice.
We must now turn our attention in the opposite direction; we shall step upon the wall and look northwest. Then we shall have an aspect of the landscape where there is no suburb beyond the wall. See the red lines marked 6 at the top of Map No. 4.