39. Paddy Fields, Farm Houses and Patches of Tea at Matin, Kiangsi Province, among the Mountains of Interior China.
Before we had reached a considerable elevation the rabble following had been increased by a contingent from the town, a more belligerent element. No sooner was my camera placed for this view than several small stones fell 'around us; it was not easy to ascertain the individuals throwing them. Many of them carried sticks and some poles. One bold fellow advanced, and with a pole uplifted threatened to smash my camera. Childs stood near with a heavy stone in each hand and held them in check until this stereograph was hurriedly taken. During this time a heavy clod from some one in the rear of the crowd landed on the camera, but did no serious damage. They were emboldened by the fact that we had no weapons of defense, not even sticks. We had expected the mandarin to accompany us, and so left our guns at the palace.
We need not, however, let the rabble disturb our enjoyment of the landscape. Our faithful servant is before us and looks off into space, as though he were unconscious of the cowardly demonstration taking place behind him, and that by his own countrymen. Two small bushes of tea are just at our feet; these near specimens will show how miserably stunted were the tea-plants in this region. You may see a patch farther down the mountain-side; the mountain on the other side of the valley had only such patches as these scattered here and there among the slopes. It does not follow that tea in all parts of China is like this; we were only unfortunate in getting into a region where the plantations were poor, and a typical tea-picking scene could not be found. In the distance you see mountains of considerable size; they are the same over which we passed on our way to this place and over which we must return. It looks like a formidable journey for our poor chair-coolies. We shall start at noon, and we must traverse those mountains again and reach our house-boat, twenty miles away, before we can sleep to-night. Look now at those farm houses down below. Everybody wants to know how a country house in the interior of China looks. You may know as much about it now as I do after all my trouble. It cost me hardship, deprivation and no inconsiderable sum of money. Are they loghouses, framehouses, stonehouses, mudhouses or what? Are the roofs of tin, thatch, tiles or shingles? Can you see smoke issuing from chimneys? No, there are no chimneys; the houses are of brick; the roofs are of tile; there are two groups of farm houses. Do you imagine they rear litters of edible kittens in those houses? I scarcely think they do in the country. No doubt, if we could see within those houses, there would be many things in the Iways of the Chinaman which would seem very strange to us.
As soon as our view was made we started for the town, and as we turned Childs received a heavy stone on the shoulder; it might have disabled a less powerful man. The blow from the stone angered my companion and he charged the whole crowd. It scattered, but as he returned he was followed by a volley of stones. As we had done before, we retreated, dodging stones as we did so. We finally got out of reach and returned to the house of the mandarin, the inhospitable home of the lord of the town, in which our bed had been a door and our food a stone. Our reception in Matin had not created in us a wish for a long sojourn, but rather a somewhat ardent desire to reach our house-boat as soon as possible. We shook the dust from off our feet-much dust and by midday were in our sedans again with twenty miles of circuitous mountain trails and paddy-pools before us. I will not relate our experience on the return trip, except to say that at the last town, within five miles of our boat, our chair-bearers left us in total darkness surrounded by a dense gathering of the usual type, while they regaled their chums with tea in some teahouse. Our "boy" could not induce them to forsake their pals, and there we sat. knowing all the while that we were in unsafe quarters.
At last, in sheer desperation, we gathered our guns and traps together and commanded our "boy" to guide us out of the town on foot. We started through a dark alley, and soon encountered a savage volley of stones. camera received one stone and still bears the mark. After tedious groping, in imminent peril of broken heads, we reached the open field. We had walked a mile, when our coolies, hearing that we had left them and afraid of forfeiting their pay, hurried on and overtook us. We reached our boat about ten o'clock at night, weary and sorely out of favor with the Chinese Empire. I still remember my companion's remark when he threw himself upon a bench in our little cabin; shrugging his bruised shoulder, he ejaculated, "Ricalton, I commence to appreciate what stoning means." And true it is, our greetings in many places had been quite barbarous; yet it should be remembered that I have made fuller mention of our experience in the hostile villages, and it is but fair to state that we passed through several villages where the inhabitants were mild-mannered and kindly; upon the whole, though, I must say that, while I have been in most of the Oriental countries, I have never, in any place, barring, perhaps, some portions of the Mohammedan world, met with so much suspicion of and hostility to foreigners. The annals of China, however, show us that such was not always the case; that previous to the reign of the present dynasty, which extends over a period of two hundred and fifty years, the sentiment of the people was favorable to foreigners; but the Manchu rulers, being jealous not only of foreign influence but of the Chinese themselves, inaugurated a period of exclusiveness toward everything which might hazard the permanency of their own reign.
We will now turn away from our ordeal of stone and mud and omit any mention of our return voyage until we reach Kinkow, the place, you will remember, where I showed you our little house-boat and where we made our first stop after starting out on our trip; the place also where dwelt a mandarin, for whose entertainment my companion showed some forethought when laying in a supply of food at Hankow. Kinkow is an important city at the confluence of a small river, with the mighty Yangtse-Kiang. This smaller river, on our arrival, was congested with all sorts of native boats, including a fleet of native river gun-boats commanded by a naval mandarin, or, perhaps I should say, a river admiral. This high functionary was he for whom the bottles of whisky had been considerately provided. My friend, on some previous occasion, met this mandarin and knew something of his predilections for Western stimulants. After our arrival, we dispatched our "boy" to find him, on learning he had left his war-junk for some part of the city. He was soon found; he returned to his fleet and received us on board his flag-junk with great cordiality. He could not speak a word of English, but being very jovial and intelligent, the extent and success of our pantomimic communication was really wonderful; then, when pantomime was inadequate, we fell back upon our boy's "pigeon" English. His home and family were in the city.
The Western Sam-Shui" was sampled, and his good fellowship was increased. It was necessary to visit his home to enjoy his hospitality. Accordingly we did so. We accompanied him for a considerable distance and for once passed through a native city unmolested. We were the guests of a mandarin, and our immunity from stones and jeers was quite delectable after our experiences at Matin. We entered the mandarin's home%; we were escorted to a seat of honor, an elevated dais, where a plate of sweetmeats was placed between us; this was followed by a service of tea offered in exquisite porcelain cups. Before we left the flag-ship he expressed a desire to have his picture taken; this was quite unusual in China; but he was intelligent beyond a dread of the camera. I was as anxious to possess his picture as he was to have it taken, but the apartments in his home were poorly lighted and I told him we must find an open space outside. Up to this time no female member of the family had been allowed to come into our presence; but when I suggested that his family should be stereographed with him he was evidently well pleased, and orders were at once sent to the female members to don their best. We sipped the mild, delicious tea and ate the very palatable delicacies for a few minutes longer, when the wife and a daughter of the proverbial sweet ten and six appeared, in beautiful attire and most careful toilette. We all started off through the narrow streets, accompanied by servants carrying stand, stool, et cetera, for an outdoor group, and followed by a train of onlookers from the street that grew larger and larger as we proceeded. We at last reached an open space under some trees and they posed as you here see them.