3. Looking down the Chukiang River into the Homes of the 400,000 Boat Population of Canton. There is the Chukiang or Pearl River leading down to Hongkong. We are looking directly east now. Our large side-wheel steamer lies still at her dock. Two steamers of this class, besides several other boats that carry freight and a few passengers, ply daily between Canton and Hongkong. These side-wheel boats are of European construction and are quite similar to those that ply between New York and Albany on the Hudson River. They have accommodations for first-class European passengers and a separate accommodation for first-class native passengers, besides an entire lower deck for the second-class Chinese, who are carried between the two ports at fifty-cent fares; first-class natives are carried for one dollar, while European travellers are charged at the civilized rate of eight dollars for the same short passage.
We are looking due east, and the water before us is only one branch of the Canton or Pearl River. The land on the right of the steamer is an island five or six miles long, and beyond it is another broad affluent of the Canton River. That island on the right bank is densely populated and forms an important suburb to the city of Canton, which lies on the north bank and extends several miles in every direction from our point of view.
The scene before us is one of the most interesting features of the myriad life of China's greatest commercial city. As far as our sight can reach we see boats; these boats are homes in which millions of human beings have been born, have lived and have died; and in many cases. without ever having set foot on land. It has been estimated that in these floating homes from two hundred and fifty to four hundred thousand lives are daily rising and falling with the tide.
The inhabitants of these floating dwellings are called Tankia, which means boat-dwellers; their ancestors were also amphibians. They are looked upon as a class below the land people, and they have many customs peculiar to themselves. Their house-boats range in size from fifteen feet to fifty and sixty feet in length. It has been estimated that eighty-five thousand of these boats are about Canton and that, of this number, forty thousand are permanently located. On many of them pigs and chickens are reared, and in many cases when the smallness of the boat does not afford deck space for such stock, a box or cage is suspended from the stern to serve as a pig-pen or a chickencoop. This way of securing comparatively free homesteads has seldom occurred to the poor of other countries. For centuries the Chinese have used boats for dwellings, and having a free anchorage their building sites cost nothing. A house-boat that will accommodate a moderatesized family can be obtained for twenty dollars. A house for twenty dollars and a free site surpass all Western residential economics; but for one hundred dollars a boat almost luxurious in appointments, according to the Tankia's order of life, can be obtained.
Most of the boats we can see here are small. A thatch of palm leaves or a cover of matting over a portion of each boat protects the occupants from sun and rain and serves as an eating and sleeping place. We speak of limitation of space, as things "in a nutshell," but here in the small compass of a fifteen-foot boat there are births, deaths and funerals there are henneries and pig-pens, and even flower-gardening, particularly on the larger boats, where considerable space in the bow is set apart for flower-pots.
Sometimes European travellers who wish to make a prolonged sojourn in the vicinity of Canton, and do not care to pay the high prices charged in the one hotel, hire a comfortable house-boat which can be had for one dollar per day. In that case the native owners occupy a small space in the bow, where all cooking is done for the traveller without extra cost, with the additional advantage of free transportation to any point on the river.
One naturally wonders how this swarming population of river-dwellers is maintained, and the answer is chiefly by transporting merchandise and by carrying passengers from place to place. In some cases daughters go ashore to work in factories as girls do in other countries; but the factory girl's annual income in China would scarcely buy an American girl's hat.
On that dock between the steamers and the shore you see several huge casks; if you were on board the steamer you would find many of these filled with water and alive with large and beautiful fish for the Hongkong market, where they are delivered alive.
Down the river beyond the steamer and before reaching that dark group of buildings we can see several ranges of larger boats extending from mid-stream toward the shore on the left. Out there we shall see floating dwellings of more beautiful construction. From those boats called "flower-boats" we shall look toward the city, on our left here. On the Map No. 4 the red lines connected with the number 4 show the relation between our two positions.