31. A Chain Gang in China-In the Thoroughfare Wearing “Cangues," which Record Their Crime, Soo-chow.
We are here looking northwest, across the Grand Canal, toward the southern portion of the city, which is entirely within the wall. These prisoners stand upon a broad, well-paved, modern street running along the canal in front of the General Concession. There are only a few buildings in this quarter; the police headquarters are just behind us, and these three prisoners have been brought out before us that we may better see how law-breakers are chained and cangued. Do not imagine that these fellows are wearing Elizabethan frills. I told you when describing the caged criminal at Shanghai I might show you other forms of punishment later; this is another form of torture. It consists of this heavy I2I frame of planks about three feet square, closed around the neck by transverse dowels and is called the Cangue.
It projects so far that the wearer cannot reach his head with his hands, and is therefore liable to die from starvation unless he have friends to look after him. The cangue usually weighs about thirty-three pounds, and when it is borne for several months it would seem to be quite insupportable to any one but an inhabitant of this land. I often think that Chinamen must have cold blood or a very crude sensorium, so callous they seem to physical pain.
A more common mode of punishment than either the cage or the cangue is the bamboo, which is used for all minor offenses. It is in such universal use that for purposes of punishment, its weight and dimensions are fixed by law, which authorizes two sizes; the first is five feet eight inches in length, two and three-quarter inches in width and two inches thick, weighing two and two-fifth pounds; the second size is the same in length, two inches broad and one and one-fifth inches thick, weighing one and five-sixth pounds. These bamboos are applied to the back of the culprit, and the number of blows is according to the offense, varying from ten to a hundred, but these are subject to remission by the grace of the Emperor, or by a pecuniary redemption. The first of this trio of cangued prisoners casts a contemptuous glance at us; the second is humility itself; the third betrays a hand-in-the-pocket indifference to what we say or think. You see written on the upper side of each cangue, in Chinese characters, the name and offense of each prisoner.
Various modes of torture are practiced to extort evidence or confession; but certain classes are exempt from the torture, in consideration of respect due to their standing in society.
There are five degrees of punishment:
The first degree is a moderate infliction with the smaller bamboo.
The second degree imposes from sixty to one hundred blows of the bamboo.
The third degree is that of temporary banishment. The fourth degree is that of perpetual banishment. The fifth and ultimate is that of death by strangulation, as with the cage or by decollation.
We will not have time to go within that old wall which has stood there for two thousand years; you see it is after the fashion of every Chinese wall, and having seen one you have seen all. The same is true of the city inside, it is typically Chinese, with a population of over seven hundred thousand. But here you obtain a good view of China's most celebrated artificial waterway, the Imperial Canal, which extends from Hangchow to Pekin, a distance of seven hundred miles. Here along the wall of the city, where traffic is heavy, it is expanded into a sort of harbor. In its long stretches through the country it is often very narrow and shallow; yet it has long been a very important means of both travel and transportation. Authorities estimate that ten thousand boats ply on this waterway and its branches.
But this Imperial Canal is not only important as a means of transit; it is well supplied with many varieties of excellent fish, fish being one of the three staples of animal food, the other two being the hog and the duck. By entering a boat down there on the canal and swinging to the right and sailing out of the town a mile or two where the canal is still wide, I may show you one of the strangest and rarest methods of capturing fish you have ever seen-a method much cleverer and much more successful than that which provoked the humorous sarcasm that "an angler is a rod with a fly at one end and a fool at the other "-it is fishing with cormorants.