63. Some of China's Trouble-makers-Boxer Prisoners Captured and Brought in by the 6th U. S. Cavalry, Tien-tsin.
Some time after the capture of the city of Tien-tsin it was learned that a large force of Boxers were advancing from the southwest, and had reached a place only ten miles away. Some apprehension was felt about a concerted attempt to recapture the Native City and attack the settlement. The guns which had been used against the Native City were mounted on the mud-wall and trained in the direction of the threatened advance. Breastworks were thrown up along the crest of the wall and every preparation made to resist any force which might be brought against them. Even if the whole army which had fled from the city should return with reënforcements, the Allies intrenched behind the mud-wall were confident they could repel it and seemed quite anxious that an attack might be made. No Boxers appeared, however, and so, instead, an expedition was made in the direction of the rumored advance. The force sent out included the U. S. Sixth Cavalry and a company of Indian Lancers. They met a considerable number of the enemy, which they attacked and routed. The boys of the Sixth Cavalry returned in great elation of spirits. It was to them a baptism of Chinese fire and they seemed to enjoy it. They brought in many trophies, such as spears, knives and flags and about fifty prisoners. These are the prisoners before us. We see some of the boys of the Sixth Cavalry beyond them; those lads assisted me in securing this stereograph. There seemed to be some uncertainty as to whether all of these captives were Boxers. Boxers often doff their distinctive uniform for the ordinary coolie's or peasant's garb when about to be captured; so that it is not always easy to know a metamorphosed Boxer from a common coolie. The boys said they knew one was a genuine Boxer because he carried a weapon; at the same time one of the cavalrymen grabbed the "real thing" by the pigtail and tugged him into the foreground and placed him near the camera as you see, saying at the same time: "You can tell by his bloomin' squint that he's a bloody warrior." The English and American soldiers were quite fraternal in China, hence the adoption of English slang. This is truly a dusky and unattractive brood. One would scarcely expect to find natives of Borneo or the Fiji Islands more barbarous in appearance; and it is well known that a great proportion of the Boxer organization is of this sort; indeed, we may even say by far the larger half of the population of the empire is of this low, poor, coolie class. How darkskinned, how ill-clad, how lacking in intelligence, how dull, morose, miserable and vicious they appear! This view was made during a very hot day in a torrid sun; and still they sit here with their heads shaven and uncovered without a sign of discomfort. None of the group endeavors to escape the camera; they are surrounded by guards; they are helpless and humble. They are quite devoid of the insolent boldness that characterizes the mountain tribes in the Province of Hunan; they are prisoners and do not yet know their fate. To-morrow they may be shot; but whether it is bambooing, shooting or beheading, one fellow decides he will take a smoke.
We are but a short distance from the Pei-ho (see number 63 in red in the German Concession on the map). Leaving the Boxers with the guards, let us stroll to the river, where we may witness a novelty in transportation. Find the red lines and the number 64 in red a few blocks further north on the map.