46. Looking down the Pei-ho River toward the North Fort and Bay, from Northwest Fort, Taku.
How many things you may learn from this one prospect! Again you can see the character of the surrounding country; you can see the bay of Pichili and almost descry some of the nearer ships of the fleet ten miles away. In that stretch of water, near the mouth of the river, lies the great obstruction to ships entering the river; I mean a sand-bar lying only a mile or two out from the mouth of the river, and on which often may be seen several ships entrapped by low water and awaiting high tide. You can see shipping on the river, the width of the Pei-ho, and almost the muddy character of the water; you can see the North Fort with the flag of the victor flying over it; you can see the long causeway, leading from the fort on which we stand to the North Fort. Along that causeway the attacking allies advanced from this Northwest Fort. You can see how exposed they were; they could not advance over the level ground in open order, as it is covered with mud and water so that the daring sally was made in close order over that long distance. The causeway was a little Thermopylæ. This sentinel told me that a handful of old women (Western) in yonder fort with the guns trained on the causeway could have held it against ten thousand men; but John Chinaman is no warrior. These have been called mud-forts. The term mud always conveys a significance of meanness which naturally leads one to consider them as crude heaps of dirt; now that we see them, we find they are well-built forts with bastions, ramparts, moat and armament which probably could be tagged "made in Germany." That long breech-loading rifle was not made in China; that steel shield for protecting the gunners is up to date. It will protect the gunner from rifle shot, but not from larger projectiles. The shield of the gun next to this, on our left, was penetrated by a three-inch shell, and the brains and blood of the gunner remained spattered on the breach of the gun. This guard you see to our right, neatly dressed in white with his LeeMetford rifle at his side, is a British Marine. A few English and a few Italians are left to guard this fort, while the other forts are held by guards from other allies.
I must remind you that Taku is not a stopping place for travellers; it is little more than a pilot station. All steamers with cargo and passengers for Tien-tsin and Pekin proceed five miles beyond Taku to Tongku. We shall now follow the narrow, winding Pei-ho to the latter place and from the deck of our steamer at the landing look out upon the ravages of war. On the Map No. 6 we find our position given by the red lines connected with the number 47.