52. Battlefield of Tien-tsin (during the Battle, July 13, 1900) from German Club (w.) to West Arsenal, Tien-tsin.
Just a moment now to get our bearings. The buildings near us belong to the British Concession. Farther away is the territory covered by the French and Japanese Concessions. That group of buildings with several smokestacks in the distance to the left belong to the West Arsenal (see map). In the distance, far to the right, we hardly catch a glimpse of the southwestern corner of the walled city.
Perhaps we may at first see nothing extraordinary in this scene, and still, probably not in the history of the world has a landscape been photographed in which, at the time the view was made, events so momentous were being enacted; besides, beyond doubt no other view was taken showing a similar panorama during the action of the Allies before Tien-tsin on that historic day. I was, so far as I can learn, the only photographer on the ground to do work of this kind. Correspondents from all parts. of the world tried to secure these views and offered to pay me any sum I would mention for them; but, of course, they were not mine to sell-they were the property of the publishers by whom I was employed. Even maps of the field were not in existence. These things I mention that we may appreciate the privilege we now have of looking upon the field of battle itself, and that, too, at the time when the battle waged in all its fury, when these very buildings on which we stand were vibrating with the deafening roar of more than a hundred cannon, when the thinned numbers of civilians left in the desolate settlement, were waiting in the utmost anxiety to know how the tide of battle would turn, whether in victory or defeat, which meant safety or massacre. The cruel enemy was infinitely superior in numbers, and, if their valor should prove even half equal to their numbers, relentless slaughter awaited all of us. A number of us stood where we now stand. You see the horizon yonder, hazy with the smoke of rifle fire and bursting shell. It was a thrilling and anxious day for us; it was a historic day for the world, and it is for these reasons that I ask you to note with more than usual care my explanation of what is before us here and of what we shall see from our next view-points.
First, then, let me locate our position with reference to our last standpoint. You see those trees in an open square; the street in which we stood when looking at the public water hydrant, runs along the left side of the square between those trees and the small, low building, the gable end of which we see over this lattice-covered court near us. The small building is the one through which a shell passed into the rooms I occupied. I mentioned also a shell which entered the barracks of the English Marines, killing one and wounding two. I want you to see the hole in the tile roof made by that fatal shell; you may see it to the extreme right, at the edge of the roof of that second building, the one with three small, square towers.
The building nearest us was formerly the English Club Rooms, now used as a hospital and already containing wounded men. Notice the rent made by a shell in the roof. To-morrow, when the wounded are brought in from the bloody battle now in progress, this and many other extemporized hospitals will be more than full.
Yesterday the cannonading was heavy, especially on account of several lyddite twelve-pound naval guns brought from British ships-indeed, they had been brought direct from Ladysmith, in the Transvaal, and bore each a tablet with the significant device, "From Ladysmith to Tien-tsin." During the past night the measured tread of soldiers never ceased. We suspected some unusual movement was on foot; but in time of war civilians and common soldiers never know the import of military movements. At two o'clock in the morning the far-fetched twelve-pounders from the antipodes 2 II were in action. The night movement of troops was the gathering of the Allies for a general attack on the Native City of Tien-tsin. Americans, English, Japanese, Welsh, French and a few Austrians, numbering in all, over eight thousand, had moved out, under cover of darkness, to gain an advantageous position for an early general attack. That West Arsenal, the cluster of buildings and tall chimneys in the distance to the left, has, up to a few days ago, been in active operation, turning out all sorts of modern munitions of war. Soon after the investment of the European settlement, this arsenal was bombarded and the Chinese driven out; shortly they reoccupied it, and only a few days before the battle now in progress it was shelled again and burned. It is in the center of the line of advance of the Allies. It is called the West Arsenal in contradistinction to the East Arsenal, lying at an equal distance on the opposite side of the Pei-ho, or directly behind us, as we stand here. The East Arsenal, which we shall see later, was captured and burned by the first relief force to Tien-tsin. Both these arsenals contained all the latest modern facilities for the manufacture of war material. The distance from where we stand to the West Arsenal is about two miles; from the arsenal to the Native City it is a little more than half that distance. As we have said, the objective point of the Allies is the South Gate of the Native City, which lies directly north of the arsenal and in line with it. A poor road extends from the arsenal across a muddy and grassy plain to the South Gate, sometimes called the Taku Gate. The brick wall surrounding the river city is twenty-five feet high and from ten to fifteen feet thick, with four principal gates. A mile or over from this wall is the circumvallation of clay, the earth or "mud-wall," some fifteen feet high, which serves as a first line of defense. At the left of the arsenal you can see a dark line extending toward our left; that is the famous "mudwall" mentioned so frequently in connection with the exigencies of the Boxer war. The center of our present field of vision is the center of the advance of the Allies in the forenoon; later in the day the lines advanced slowly and with great difficulty toward the city. You can scarcely see a dark line extending from the arsenal toward the right, marking the line of the road to the city. But to the left and to the right of that road, we remember the Allied forces deployed in the following order from left to right: American Marines, Welsh Fusiliers, Japanese, British Marines, Eighth United States Infantry. At this distance of two miles the field of battle seems small, but remember that it embraces five or six square miles before us in this direction, and, when we turn in an opposite direction and look across the Pei-ho, we will see another field of an equal area covered by the Russian wing of the Allies. It is uncertain whether we can now distinguish troops or not; but at times during the battle we could distinguish the different soldiers without our field-glasses, and with them, very distinctly. You can dimly see off to the right the line of the city wall vanishing in the distant horizon; and the exact position of the American Ninth Infantry is indicated by those black objects, far to the right, in the hazy distance. Indeed, I have scarcely been able to convince myself that those dark objects are not the blue shirts of the brave boys of the Ninth; that is the exact position they occupied at midday, when they found shelter for a time behind some mud-houses. It was there they encountered a deadly flank fire from a range of loop-holed walls not two hundred yards distant. It was near that point, also, that Colonel Liscom fell. I must remind you that native villages surround the city, outside the walls, and that these places were filled with Boxers well protected and firing from loop-holes.
If we turn more to the left we shall obtain a better view of the mud-wall and the course of the night march of the Allies. On the map, the lowest of the six red lines which branch out from our standpoint near the river in the English Concession and the third line from the bottom, each with the number 53 at its end, mark the limits of our next field of vision.