58. From Mud-wall near West Arsenal (n.) to South Gate of Native City, when Allies are Entering, July 14, 1900, Tien-tsin.
The allied armies have passed this morning from where we stand across that plain to the wall of the city through which they have just gone, led by the Japanese. Several flags are already hoisted, which we can indistinctly discern. To the extreme left, as I recall, the French flag; nearer the smoke, the American, over the South Gate; between the two columns of smoke, the Japanese, the English being hoisted in another part of the city. You can distinguish the outlines of the walls of the city here, much as we could from the roof of the German Club building, showing still a distance of over a mile. The road which extends from this point to the South Gate lies directly before us; it swings around that pond to the left, then again. to the right, passing around those farther native houses, where we see a number of persons; then again it deflects to the left, and continues directly to the South Gate at the left of the rising smoke, where the American flag flies triumphant over the smoldering ruins. The ruins of the West Arsenal which we have had occasion to mention so frequently, lie at our right, extending nearly up to those trees and facing that small native village on the left. These ponds occur frequently over the battlefield; sometimes as drainage canals, sometimes as mere stagnant pools. The houses in these villages have all been destroyed by fire, probably by the shells fired at the arsenal which is in line with them. You may see a canal beyond those houses on the other side of the pool. That canal extends nearly to the city, and the road follows its right bank. At a point half way to the city the Boxers had breastworks thrown across the road, and behind these were vast quantities of fired rifle shells. In that nearby village were great numbers of the dead.
We see before us a band of coolies bearing a palanquin containing some important personage, probably a civil functionary who has been allowed to pass the guards and escape to the country; or it may be a distinguished prisoner in charge of that officer who follows. The coolies are carrying small, white flags for protection. At such a time we do not stop to make inquiries about trifles. We hurry on to reach the South Gate, and in passing through suburban villages we see many victims of the previous day's fighting; some within their houses, some in the yards of their homes; one little boy, I could not but notice, who lay over the threshold of his home, his feet projecting into the street. When we reach the gate we find all is chaos and consternation; the flames within the walls of the quadrangular square at the gate are still burning fiercely. The terrified inhabitants are cowering in every nook. We ascend to the top of the wall, just east of the gate, and look west. The Japanese seem to be in charge, but the Stars and Stripes have been sent up, even amid flame and smoke, and there they still float. Our position is given on the map by the red lines connected with the number 59, which start a few rods east of the South Gate and branch west.