9. In the Temple of Five Hundred Genii (founded A. D. 500), Canton.
This temple was founded 500 A. D., or about fourteen hundred years ago, and is called the Flowery Forest Monastery, or Temple of Five Hundred Genii. At the early date of its establishment its surroundings probably made the former rural name appropriate. The exterior consists of a series of low, grimy buildings quite unattractive in appearance; so we lose little in confining ourselves to this view within where you can see a phalanx of the celebrated so-called Genii from which the temple takes the latter name. These really are statues representing noteworthy disciples of Buddha; they are familiarly called Josses or idols.
This being a Buddhistic shrine, let me, while we look at these odd figures, tell you briefly who Buddha was; you may easily know much more about this famous character than I do myself, yet it may be otherwise with some. I have visited many of the most noted Buddhistic temples in India, Burmah and Ceylon, and have often been surprised to find how much error exists with reference to Buddhism. For instance, many do not know that there are more Buddhists than Christians; that about one-third of the population of the world are Buddhists; that Buddhism is numerically the religion of the world; that two-thirds of the population of China are followers of Gautama, or Buddha. Yet till the middle of this century there was nothing but vague notion and conjecture in Europe or America respecting the nature and origin of this world religion. There are over four hundred million disciples of the wonderful philosophy taught by the sostyled Buddha. There are eminent scholars who doubt that such a person ever existed, and believe that Buddha was only a metaphorical figment; but Oriental authorities have no doubt as to the historical reality of a personal Buddha. They give the time and place of his birth and many incidents of his life with the utmost particularity. You say, What statues are these? They are not statues of Buddha, but statues of men who have been worthy disciples of him. Many are inclined to laugh at these Josses or so-called idols, and suppose the Chinese followers of Buddha worship them; some of the more ignorant may do so; but intelligent followers do not worship these statues.
You see small sticks, called Joss-sticks, in those pots; these are burned before the statues, and this naturally leads one to believe this is idol worship. Buddhists offer flowers and oil and make reverence before the statues of Buddha, his relics, and the monuments containing them; yes, these things are done and offered as before stated, but not in the spirit of an idolater. We do the same with the graves and statues of our honored dead, and we do not call it idolatry.
The object of the statue is to recall the example of him who taught the way that leads to deliverance. We see essentially the same thing in our Christian religion; great and worthy men in the church have been canonized and are called saints. We know how the mother of our Savior and his disciples are worshiped because they were near to Christ. In the same way, these statues representing noteworthy examples of Buddhism are honored by the followers of that great teacher, and the honor shown in some cases may resemble worship. They are intended, however, only to remind the disciple of those who have pointed the way to Nirvana, as they call a state of deliverance from the ills of the present life.
More interesting even than these figures, however, are the teachings of Buddha, the tenets and principles of life that have won the faith and following of more than a third of the human race, a full account of which would require volumes; but here I can only mention a few cardinal points in his life and teachings, taken from a carefully compiled Buddhist catechism:
(1) Buddha was not a God, but a man born at Kapilavastu, one hundred miles northeast of Benares, in India, 623 B. C.
(2) Buddha is not his real name, but the name of a condition or state of mind; it means enlightened, or he who has the perfect wisdom. His royal name was Siddartha; Gautama or Gotama, his family name. He was Prince of Kapilavastu. His father was King Suddhodana; his mother, Queen Maya, who ruled over the Sakyas, an Aryan tribe.
(3) In form Buddha was a man; but internally not like other men. That is to say, in mental and moral qualities he excelled all other men of his own or subsequent times.
(4) Buddha was born and reared in a splendid palace, and when he was but a child he seemed to understand all arts and sciences, almost without study; but he did not become a Buddha in his splendid palace; he saw the vanity and sufferings of human life and, in order to discover the cause of them and how to escape from them, he left his beautiful palaces, his beloved wife and only son, and retired to the solitude of the jungle, where he spent several years in meditation and fasting. At one time he was at the point of death from starvation; after years of struggle he decided that the higher knowledge could never be attained by fasting or penance. He took food, repaired to an asvattha tree and determined not to leave the spot till he attained Buddhaship. Just before the dawn of the next day, the light of supreme knowledge was revealed to him and he saw at once the cause of all human suffering and the means of escape. The cause, in a single word, he ascribed to ignorance.
(5) Of things that cause sorrow, he gives:
Birth, growth, decay, illness, death, separation from things we love, hating what cannot be avoided, craving for what cannot be obtained.
As a means of escape from these sorrows, he gives what he has called the Noble Eight-fold Path. The parts of this path are:
(1) Right Belief; (2) Right Thought; (3) Right Speech; (4) Right Doctrine; (5) Right Means of Living; (6) Right Endeavor; (7) Right Memory; (8) Right Meditation. The man who follows these will be free from sorrow and reach salvation (Nirvana).
Buddha has summed up his whole religion in one verse:
"To cease from all sin,
To get virtue,
To cleanse one's own heart,
This is the religion of the Buddhists."
The following are five precepts imposed on the laity, in general:
(1) I observe the precept to abstain from destroying the life of any being.
(2) I observe the precept to refrain from stealing.
(3) I observe the precept to abstain from unlawful sexual intercourse.
(4) I observe the precept to abstain from falsehood.
(5) I observe the precept to abstain from using intoxicating liquors and drugs that tend to procrastination (stupefy).
This is a brief list of precepts for the laity. Other precepts may be voluntarily added to this, and a special list is required of the priests.
You say, how about transmigration or rebirth-is not that one of the peculiarities of their belief? Yes, the Buddhist believes, according to Alcott's interpretation of their philosophy, that "The unsatisfied desire for things that belong to the state of personal existence in the material world causes us to be reborn. This unquenched thirst for physical existence is a force, and has a creative power in itself, so strong that it draws the being back into mundane life. It is in reconciliation with science, since it is the doctrine of cause and effect. Science teaches that man is the result of a law of development, from an imperfect and a lower to a higher and a perfect condition which is called evolution."
Now, with this brief résumé of some salient features of this world-wide philosophy, we will go on with our inspection of this line of figures. You see that these statues represent Mongolianized types of Buddha as represented in India; they have the drooping, looped ears; they all have the sitting posture; their heads are shaved after the fashion of Buddhist priests the world over; they wear the flowing, loose robe of cotton, dyed yellow; they have Chinese shoes; no two are in the same pose. Sometimes I think the great Buddha must have been lazy; I have scarcely, if ever, seen a statue in any way typical of him. that was not in a sitting position and did not represent him as suspiciously obese. These are certainly a goodnatured lot of worthies, and some of them must be guilty of telling a good story, for, from one end of the line to the other, they wear a pleasant smile. I told you at the Ancestral Hall that a smile is a rare phenomenon in China, and I cannot help entertaining a mild suspicion that some slight consanguinity exists between the grinning boy at the former place and these sacerdotal figures.
The interior of this temple is quadrangular, and every side of the square is flanked by double rows of figures,
51 five hundred in all, and all blackened with the smoke of incense that has been curling up before them for centuries.
But we have stopped here for considerable time; let us betake ourselves hence to a great national institution, one of another type. See the red lines marked 10 near the right-hand portion of Map No. 4.