48. Horrors of War-Dead Chinese floating in the Pei-ho, showing riddled Buildings along the French Bund, Tien-tsin.
Many talk of the horrors of war who know little of their actualities, and for that reason such a scene as this, though it is repulsive, is also educative; for, to know truly, you must see, and even this repellent scene is but a slight hint of war's horrors. For ten days before I came here, dead bodies, in incredible numbers, had been floating down the river, and, several times a day coolies were sent to this place with poles to set free the accumulation of bodies and allow them to float down stream. At this moment, you see, there are only four or five in view, but at other times there are large numbers, especially in the morning, after a night's accumulation. At times I have seen heads and headless trunks in this flotsam of war. Many of these dead have been killed by the relief troop who first entered Tien-tsin; others, by the second advance of reënforcements, and many, previously, by the Boxers and were probably Christian converts. Doubtless a considerable number also are suicides, for the Chinese have a penchant for suicide at such times.
This part of the city, lying between the railway station and the French Concession, was the center of the heaviest firing on several occasions, and every building is gutted by fire or riddled with shot. We are looking nearly south; the railway station is less than a quarter of a mile behind us and is surrounded by a suburban population. The shattered windows and pierced walls everywhere tell how the showers of shot swept everything at this point. You see the shell mementoes on this building at the right; there are other buildings along this Bund even more thoroughly scarred than those. Many of the trees that line the side of the street have been shot through until they toppled over. The cross streets that terminate here, are barricaded for a mile or over along this Bund. The only water supply for troops and citizens is before you. Military orders were given that no water should be used unless boiled; but the order was often disregarded. Soldiers frequently have little regard for sanitary orders or law, and have a happy way of turning privations and hardships into fun. After all, we have here only a hint of war's destruction and sacrifice. These poor fellows will, in their turn, float down the river to feed the starving dogs of the river-side villages, and yet, they are somebody's dear ones, and none will ever know how many thousands have been thus borne away uncoffined on the turbid waters of the Pei-ho.
We will leave this grewsome scene, pass out upon the Bund, and turning to the left, follow it for a mile downstream to a point in the river where small boats depart for Tongku. I wish I could show you all the scenes we pass in that mile along the Bund. At this time a walk along this street on the river is a perilous undertaking— sniping" is constantly going on and there is scarcely a minute when one cannot hear the ominous hiss of passing bullets. Once I stood talking with a soldier, only for a few moments, when he ejaculated: "Come out of this! Didn't you hear that bullet come between us?" We were not more than three feet apart. We concluded our confab behind a wall. At length we arrive at the place where barges have been brought in to convey native Christian refugees to Tongku and other places of safety. In watching them embark we shall stand on the west bank of the river and look east. See red lines connected with the number 49 on the map.