We are again looking northward from the top of the wall, and that large two-story building beyond the bridge is the most prominent building of the British Legation.
It is surrounded by many one-story buildings, which do not show distinctly behind walls and surrounding trees.
A wall incloses the compound on every side.
That was the center of the besieged district.
Probably never in history was the interest and anxiety of the entire civilized world so centered on one small spot as on that British Legation during the months of June and July of 1900.
For sixty days four thousand human beings were penned within those narrow quarters, and not only living on limited food supplies, but under an incessant hail of cannon and rifle fire.
Since this place before us is so full of history, episode and thrilling association, let us make a careful inspection of it from our commanding outlook.
First note the fatal stupidity of the enemy in not gaining this position, from which, with the modern artillery in their possession, they could have swept the Legation with a plunging fire and annihilated the four thousand inmates in a few hours.
I pointed out to you the eastern end of Legation Street from our last position; here again you may see it where it passes over that low arched bridge between us and the British Legation.
The French and German Legations are a short distance toward the right from that bridge; the Russian and American are to the left.
A canal at this time dry, passes beneath that bridge past the English Legation and on toward another bridge in the distance.
It was on the second bridge that Professor James was killed as he was returning from doing what he could to find a place for the suffering native Christians.
I have already mentioned that canal as issuing from the canal on the south side of the wall and passing beneath through a small barricaded opening known as the Water Gate, at which the English first entered.
That now historic gate is almost below us, a little to the left, as you may see, by the course of the so-called canal.
The main entrance to the English Legation is toward the canal at the beginning of the row of trees.
Out of that entrance beneath those trees rushed the long-imprisoned, the longbesieged Ministers and missionaries to welcome their deliverers.
Try to imagine the emotions of those people as they saw the brave American and English boys, covered with the grime and dust of a ten days' march in the hot sun, reach Legation Street at the bridge and turn toward them.
Sixty days in hourly expectation of massacre, and now the space between them and the bridge filling up with serried lines of guns which means deliverance.
Could there have been present some sort of a cardioscope, if I may coin a word, to register heart-beats and emotions, what a picture we would have had!
Think of four thousand choking utterances of the greeting aforementioned: "I'm so glad to see you!"
But we must be satisfied to merely look upon the place.

