Nankin is still a great city of two hundred thousand inhabitants, although it has suffered much both from the ravages of time and war.
It lies three miles inland, on the south bank of the Yang-tse, about one hundred miles from Shanghai.
The wall surrounding the ancient city measures about thirty-five miles, but the present wall is only about twenty, and in some places shows the effects of time.
For many years during the Ming dynasty it was the capital of the empire; and here Hung Wu died in 1398 A.D.
Hung Wu was the founder of the Ming dynasty.
The founder of that famous order of Kings was buried in the royal tombs a short distance outside the city.
The ruins of those tombs are all that is now left to attract travellers to the old capital.
They are known as the "Tombs of the Kings," but are sometimes called the "Ming Tombs," the same as the royal tombs near Pekin.
The ancient royal tombs, both at Pekin and Nankin, are approached by a dromos or avenue of stone figures.
They include human figures, seemingly those of warriors and priests, figures of lions, horses, camels and elephants; they are ranged along either side of what has once been a well-paved way, sometimes in single pairs and sometimes in doubles.
While the art displayed in the hewing out of these colossal figures is not of the highest order, the amount of labor required and the mechanical appliances necessary are truly wonderful.
These figures of elephants are monolithic, twelve feet high and about seven feet in breadth.
They are intended to represent the guardians of the royal dead.
The site of the tomb itself is seemingly unknown.
The backs of the elephants are covered with stones; whether placed there by the sport of boys or whether they possess some commemorative significance I could not learn.
Gigantic figures of elephants similar to these at the "Ming Tombs" near Pekin, are known to have been transported for over a hundred miles by primitive methods.
I made views of other figures along this monumental highway to the grave of the great Hung Wu, but I have no space for them, and we shall return to the river, only stopping on our way to examine a bamboo plantation.
