From where we stand the mouth of the river and open bay is but a short distance to our right.
On both sides of the river, at its mouth, are mud forts similar to the one we see on the opposite side of the river.
The latter is known as the Northwest Fort.
It is the one which was nearest to the warships which are anchored in the river some distance toward the left.
It is the one first attacked and captured by a mixed force from the combined fleet.
Almost directly behind us are several other forts, little more than a half mile distant; these, with the North Fort and the Northwest Fort before us, at one o'clock on Sunday morning on June 17, 1900, opened fire with all their guns on the small warships which were lying in that narrow stream off to the left.
The contest was hot, but of short duration, as by 7 o'clock in the morning two of the forts had been blown up and all the others carried by assault.
The particulars of that battle are familiar to every one, but no written description can ever convey to you so vivid an idea of the appearance of the now famous mud forts at Taku, the river, and the surrounding country, as this opportunity to view them for yourself.
You see the level mud flats extending to the horizon; the view is the same in every direction, except toward the sea.
Now you can tell exactly how those forts appear; you can even distinguish the patches of clay detached by the impact of shell.
You can almost see the guns on the wall; you can see the flag-poles and flags; indeed, that near pole is not only a flag-pole, it is also used for sending dispatches to the fleet by wireless telegraphy.
These mud forts are not so crude and defenseless as many are led to suppose from the term mud.
They consist of vast masses of well-put-up clay, which offers more effective resistance to shell than solid masonry; but how they are built, and how mounted with the most improved ordnance, you will see better when we take our next position on the top of the wall of the Northwest Fort, at the left-hand corner, in line with that warship.
From that position we shall look down the river toward its mouth and the North Fort.
Let me call your attention briefly to the buildings near us, that you may know how the houses in Taku are built, and not only in Taku, but throughout the whole valley of the Pei-ho to Pekin I mean of mud, though what you see here are well-made houses and occupied by Europeans.
The two buildings at our feet are portions of the Taku Hotel, which I occupied on three different occasions.
The near building on the left is the dining-room of the hotel.
These so-called mudhouses have walls and roof built up of bundles of reeds coated with the universal clay of these alluvial plains.
The countless villages and towns scattered over these vast northern tracts are constructed largely of mud or clay; they have a miserable appearance, but they are warm and inexpensive.
A mudhouse to accommodate a small family does not cost half the sum required to build a well-to-do farmer's pighouse in Western countries.
This part of Taku is known as Pilot-Town, because it is the home of many pilots whose services are in great demand on account of the difficulties in navigating the shallow and tortuous river.
Our position here is on the top of a pilot's lookout; you may see another lookout beyond the line of buildings on our left.
Some small dry-docks are located here; also repair shops that give employment to a few Europeans.
Before leaving this pilot's lookout, I must call your attention to a causeway which begins at the right-hand side of that Northwest Fort; it extends to the North Fort on the same side of the river and which we can see better from our next position.
