This is not exactly a potter's field; it is the burial place of the common people.
We do not see here the graves of the better class, for they often have private graveyards within their own domain.
These are humble graves, simple mounds covering heavy wooden coffins.
They are sacredly preserved; they have been located by geomancy and that has first right, and land tenure second.
Suppose we allow a square rod for two graves and that only four hundred million burials occur every fifty years; that would diminish the production area one and one-half million acres every half century.
Can we wonder then that there is so much complaint because inviolable sepulture encroaches so heavily upon productive lands.
Wherever possible, barren slopes and unproductive places are set apart for cemeteries, but this is frequently not practicable.
Mortuary buildings are erected in which the wealthy place their dead, at least, temporarily.
Near Tien-tsin I saw buildings inclosed by brick walls in which many coffins stood above ground quite exposed.
These coffins had been burst open and rifled by some of the foreign soldiers.
The bodies were tumbled out to be stripped of their jewels and trinkets; they were robed in their best apparel and well preserved, as though partially mummified.
It is known that they are buried with some of their precious belongings, and this tempted the greed of some of the unprincipled soldiery.
The coffins are made of plank three and four inches thick, carefully sealed.
In the bottom is placed a quantity of quicklime; the body is swathed in a great amount of cotton, and only a slight odor escaped from these newly-opened coffins.
The dead are kept at least forty-nine days before interment; this is to give the geomancers ample time to locate a lucky burial site.
Coffins are often secured irrespective of any imminent prospects of death; indeed, they are always regarded as a very handsome and appropriate birthday gift.
Funeral customs in China are so numerous and strange that chapters might be devoted to an account of them; one consists in scattering paper money (small tin-foil imitations of syce) along the road as the funeral procession advances, in order to appease the cupidity of straggling ghosts that may haunt the way.
We see no tablets nor monuments to mark these last resting-places of the dead.
The approaches to the tombs of nobles, as we observed at Nankin, are often marked by rows of stone figures.
