The "The law distinctly states, with regard to the winter costume, that the hat to be worn shall be covered with dark satin and the inside lined with dark cloth.
brim is to be turned up.
The apex must be adorned with a tassel of red silk so long and so thick as to cover the entire top.
The top of a court hat for the winter season must be covered with red floss silk so long as to extend slightly over the brim.
The summer hat is to be made either of fine straw or of very thin strips of bamboo or rattan; the outside covered with very fine silk, with a tassel of red silk cord on the top.
The border must not turn up.
The court hat for summer is to resemble the ordinary summer hat in all particulars except the following: The rim must be covered with gold lace and the inside lined with red gauze.
The travelling hat for summer is to resemble the ordinary summer hat in form.
The red tassel, however, must be of cow's hair.
In addition to the tassel, a button, indicating by its color the rank of the wearer, must be attached to the apex of each hat.
For example, the hat worn by a gentleman or officers of the first rank, is distinguished by a button of a bright red color on its apex.
A dark red button distinguishes the second rank; a dark blue button, the third rank; a light-blue button, the fourth rank; a crystal button, the fifth rank; a white button, the sixth rank; a gold button, the seventh or eighth rank; and a silver button, the ninth rank.
To the back of each hat is also attached a peacock's feather, which, in the case of a person of high rank, has two eyes, while persons of inferior rank are restricted to a feather which has only one eye.
On those so-called breastplates different emblems are used to designate the rank; birds are used for civil ranks, and animals for the military.
The uniform of the imperial soldiers has a cloth badge on the breast and on the back, giving the regimental designation.
Official gentlemen of the highest rank have the angelic stork on the breastplate; those of the second rank, the pheasant; of the third rank, the peacock; of the fourth rank, the wild goose; of the fifth, the silver pheasant; of the sixth, the cormorant; of the seventh, a bird called ki chik; of the eighth, the quail; of the ninth, a kind of white bird.
