This official and his family are very richly attired; their garments are wholly of the richest silks and satins and elaborately wrought in the finest embroidery.
The styles do not change from year to year, as ours do; they can, therefore, provide themselves with the most costly dress without the necessity of a new supply with every change of fashion.
Fashions remain essentially the same for centuries, and garments are handed down from one generation to another, without being considered antiquated.
The costumes of both sexes are equally graceful and convenient.
The European dress has been called a "mysterious combination of the inconvenient and the unpicturesque."
And so it is neither comfortable nor convenient-and we are greater slaves to fashion than the Chinese.
In the Chinese dress there is not much difference in the style for the sexes.
In the outer tunics worn by this family notice the capacious sleeves; they are very full and often exquisitely embroidered.
In cold weather, instead of wearing mittens or gloves, the hands are drawn within the sleeves; and good breeding requires one to keep the hands in such a position as to properly display the sleeves.
You may understand from this why I did not require this mandarin to place his hands in a more graceful position; it would have been impertinence and bad manners; that is his way and it is right, according to his standard of good form.
The underskirt is one of the prettiest parts of the female attire; it extends a foot below the outer garment and is beautifully embroidered.
You cannot but observe the entire absence of collars or anything about the neck to impede freedom of movement and destroy comfort.
Probably the most important thing about the dress is that square piece of cloth on the front of the tunic, called by some writers a breastplate.
It is elegantly wrought in gold thread and silk and bears the insignia of rank.
Sumptuary laws and laws of rank and dress are very comprehensive and specific, to the smallest detail, in China.
There are many ranks in both social and official life.
Houses must be made in a certain way for a certain rank, even to the most trifling detail.
It is the same in dress; what is to be worn in summer and what in winter is prescribed, from hat to stockings, with the utmost particularity.
It is scarcely possible for any one to understand how precise and exacting are these laws of rank.
It is worth while to quote a few lines from Gray's excellent work on China in regard to these laws.
