Here we have a general view looking east along the old wall which swings to the left in the distance.
The German Club building, from which we obtained our first panoramas of the battlefield, lies over a mile farther to the right than we can see.
We have again, from this position, a view of the Japanese military supply force, and there, near us, is an officer's horse; we see bands of coolies, probably commandeered for service; we see a line of captured “rikishas"; we may observe also this range of poorer houses made of mud; the better buildings are of brick, but all of one low story as usual.
You may notice many of these mud-houses pinked with bullet holes, made by shots passing over the wall and, more than likely, by some volleys fired after the entrance at the gate, which now lies behind us.
Farther on, a little to the left, we may see where a shell has penetrated a mud-roof; but still more interesting are buildings beyond, fronting on this same street where you see an open space, flanked by a brick wall; they are to the left of the wall and are a little higher than the surrounding structures.
They constitute a native arsenal and were well filled with all sorts of war materials, including cannon, rifles of many kinds, swords, ammunition, flags, soldiers' clothing, etc.
There is no doubt but that the ample supply of this military storehouse furnished many a souvenir to both civilian and soldier.
After the capture of the city it was divided into districts, and the different districts were assigned to troops of different nations for control and government.
This portion of the city was assigned to the Americans.
This district extends from the South Gate nearly to the tower we see in the distance, and to the left an equal distance.
Fortunately for the Americans the district contained both an arsenal and a mint; more correctly the so-called mint was a public building for the safe-keeping of syce or silver bullion received from all parts of the Empire, in payment for salt, which is produced in great quantities from sea-water, by solar evaporation, and shipped to the different Provinces.
In giving an account of this mint or salt-yamen, as we will call it, I must anticipate, in order that you may understand the interest attached to the scene before us; that is, I must tell you something of what transpired several days after the capture of the city, that you may better understand the scene presented here on the day following the battle.
