The location of the salt-yamen is indicated by those two tall poles resembling flag-poles off to our left; the buildings, at the time we are looking on the scene, are still smoldering, and few seemed to know that said buildings contained great quantities of bullion.
Soon after I was here I met an Anierican soldier who had in his possession an old bag containing about as much silver as he could conveniently carry.
He said, "Look in this bag!"
I looked, and, sure enough, there was a back-load of bright bars; but I had some doubts about it being silver.
I suspected I had become possessed of one of those old tantalizing dreams about finding money.
I said to him, How much apiece for those bars?"
"Two dollars and a half; there's plenty more over there," was his reply.
It proved, however, to be silver of the first quality, worth thirty-five dollars per bar.
I had not qualified as a broker and the opportunity was lost.
During the following night, and before the military officers in command were fully aware of the great quantity of silver in the burning ruins, soldiers and others had carried off vast amounts.
From this source syce became so plentiful in the settlement that the military authorities prohibited the banks from buying it, and made some attempts to confiscate what had been thus taken by individuals.
The ruins of the salt-yamen proved a veritable silver mine.
A guard was placed over it finally, and the silver was removed to the headquarters of the U. S. Marines; but what disposition was finally made of this rich capture I have never been able to learn.
And, as to the amount, I cannot say authoritatively, but it was currently reported at one and a half millions of dollars.
This, however, I know, that when it was brought into the marine headquarters I made a photograph of nine four-mule wagon loads of silver, all standing at one time before the marine barracks, and was told that these nine four-mule teams would have to make a second trip to the yamen for the balance.
It was well known later that the Americans were not the only ones among the allied troops who found and carried away treasure.
It was a great surprise to me, on returning to the United States, to learn that so little mention had been made of these captures of such enormous quantities of bullion; indeed, up to the present, I have never met any one who had even heard of it.*
