On our arrival at Loong Wah, near the pagoda of the same name, which you see a few hundred feet before us, this "Jolly Old Beggar " marched directly into our presence with greasy, but by no means a starved-looking face, and asked for alms.
We were at once struck by his extraordinary manner as well as by his extraordinary appearance; the first thing unusual in his manner was his smiling face and his cheerful willingness to stand before the camera.
This he did just as you see him, and before receiving alms.
This was done, too, before I had been made aware that he was a distinguished man, well known in his native village and in the country round; he is a royal personage, even a king in his class, and undoubtedly a possessor of considerable wealth.
But surely neither his mien nor his garb betray his royalty; so I must explain it to you.
Begging is a vocation in China, and beggary an institution.
In every province there is an organized beggar's society or guild, in some provinces several.
These guilds have presidents and sub-officials, and are in all respects thoroughly organized.
There is a membership fee of about four dollars, and all members swear to abide by the rules and regulations of the society.
The presidents, or "Kings," as they are generally called, are under the protection of a magistrate.
The power of the head of a guild is considerable; and they are sometimes appointed watchmen over certain streets because their authority is greatly respected by the unscrupulous element of their own society.
When a member dies the guild furnishes a two-dollar coffin for decent burial, and other members are required to attend the funeral; they maintain a lodging-house in which members are allowed to sleep at the rate of one cash (one-seventeenth of a cent) a night.
In some towns the rich merchants furnish a dinner twice a year to the beggars on condition that they are not to be importuned by the guild for alms at other times.
At certain times in the year all beggars worship at the graves of the brotherhood.
Some of these guilds follow curious occupations, as at Fool Chow, where they engage in rearing snakes, which are sold to the medical fraternity, who boil them down for medicinal purposes.
All beggars are not members of a guild; many are too poor and miserable to cope with the initiation fees; such beggars you saw at the "Dyingplace" in Canton.
The many expedients to which beggars here resort to elicit sympathy and extort alms is an ethnological study.
Sometimes they have been known to carry a most unsightly leper, on whom the progress of his incurable disease has sloughed off ears and nose and hands.
This is done to compel the inmates of homes to bestow alms in order to rid themselves of a loathsome nuisance.
Others cut themselves with razors and bespatter themselves with blood, taking care always to present the most bloody appearance with the least cutting possible.
Another method is to stand on the street or by one's home and beat the head in a most ferocious manner with a stick.
The beholder is expected to give a few cash rather than witness such scene.
Others will wallop their heads against the house or any convenient wall for the same purpose.
Sometimes they will drop on the doorstep and threaten to die there unless their distress is relieved.
When I was in Canton visiting a great temple, a miserable wretch who had been awaiting my exit from one of the courts, staggered for some time and then fell prostrate on the flagstones, to all appearances suffering great agony and in a dying condition.
My guide told me that it was all affected, but that I might better leave a little cash-balm for him, as we were in an evil crowd, in an unsafe quarter.
