This magnificent structure was first erected in the twelfth century by men from the Province of Fukien, which lies south of Chien Kiang, the province in which Ningpo is located.
It was rebuilt in 1680, and one can scarcely believe from the bright new appearance of the carved columns that it has been standing as we now see it for over two hundred years.
It has a large membership of wealthy men and is richly endowed.
These Guild Halls in the Flowery Kingdom correspond to clubs in Western 1Ο1 countries; they are social and semi-commercial, being a meeting place for commercial and literary men and people of wealth and standing.
The buildings cover an extensive area, arranged in different halls of one story with a courtyard in front of each.
Merchants from the same province of Fukien have erected another beautiful Guild Hall at Canton at a cost of $120,000.
In some of the halls a stage is erected for theatrical performances, and from a balcony members and their friends can enjoy the entertainments.
In other halls shrines are dedicated to different so-called deities, such as the Queen of Heaven, the God of Learning, etc.
This Fukien Guild Hall, or temple, is said to be dedicated to the Marine Goddess, Ma Tsupu.
There is also in some part of the temple area an Ancestral Hall, in which tablets are erected in memory of departed members of the guild or club.
The appearance of this place on festal occasions is animated and brilliant.
Lanterns and scrolls are suspended from the ceilings on which curious characters and devices are written in gorgeous colors.
The rich and elaborate magnificence of the carving on those columns you can observe from where we stand.
Some of these columns, my guide told me, were executed in Amoy and others in Ningpo; they are monolithic and of fine gray granite.
We have noticed from time to time on our journey the lack of architectural beauty and attractiveness in Chinese buildings.
The Ancestral Hall in Canton was beautiful.
In this clubhouse we have another evidence that the Chinese are not devoid of architectural art and taste.
These columns would not disgrace the carver's cunning in any age or country.
Just notice how delicate in every detail, how rich the designs and in what elaborate and bold relief are the figures on the columns of this porch.

