You will scarcely think it possible that those low, shedlike structures, hardly more imposing in appearance than the cattle-pens in some city stockyards, are the halls in which applicants for examination for degrees that nearly correspond with our college degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts are held.
Yes, once in three years learned examiners come from Pekin to test here the literary merit of those who aim to fill government offices or to obtain honorary degrees.
The government of China has encouraged the higher education of the few by dispensing state offices and honors only to scholars, and the distribution is based on this system of elaborate examinations.
As far as it goes it is an equitable system of civil service; for the poorest may rise to the highest rank next to the Emperor.
China is the only country in the world in which titles of honor for learning are higher and more lucrative than those conferred on military officials.
The greatest general is outranked by a Doctor of Laws.
The preparation for these triennial examinations is very unlike our preparation for a degree in college; it consists largely in a cramming with obsolete Confucian classics.
The applicant most likely to secure a degree is the one who has memorized and can best quote the four sacred books and the five classics of Confucius.
Four degrees are conferred.
Examinations for the first degree are held in provincial towns throughout the Empire; for the second, in each capital of the eighteen provinces.
Those for the third are held in Pekin; the final examination gives the successful candidate a membership in the Imperial Academy.
Every male, without respect to age or position, is eligible, and should a degree be obtained, even though no government appointment be the result, the possessor is not only honored in his community, but enjoys an immunity from the baser penalties of the law, such as bamboo flagellations, which are inflicted for many trivial offenses.
The examinations are very rigorous and often only a very small number out of the thousands of applicants carry away the honors of a degree.
