The grounds of this Examination Hall cover about twenty acres and contain accommodation for twelve thousand competitors.
We entered through a gate at the farther end of this causeway, and we are now standing on the upper floor of a building which contains apartments for two chiefs and ten junior examiners; also for the Viceroy and the Governor of the Province, whose presence is required during the examinations.
The examiners who are sent from Pekin are received with every mark of honor and ceremony.
We are here looking southeast over one portion of the ground covered by the examination cells or pens.
You will notice the low, narrow brick structures with half-roofs sloping toward the entrance side, with a narrow alley or lane between them; these long, shed-like buildings are partitioned off into spaces five feet six inches deep, three feet eight inches broad and six feet high.
Each cell, when occupied, is securely closed in front by a strong wooden grating.
In these solid brick quarters the candidate is confined for two whole days and nights, during which time he is to complete his essay or poem.
From a tower built for the purpose, a close watch is maintained over the whole area, and the utmost precaution is taken to prevent students from smuggling into their cells any available item of literature.
These buildings and the whole surroundings have a cheerless and dilapidated aspect which we can hardly discern here.
You will notice, on the end of each range of cells, characters designating the number of the range and the cells included.
You can see also the source of the water supply for the twelve thousand feverish and anxious competitors that are locked in those close, hot cells for two days and two nights; I mean the cisterns with stone curbs that extend along the space between the causeway and the buildings.
I need not tell you that the two Oriental specimens below us, with bare heads and poorly shod feet and stiffly akimboed arms are not defeated candidates for literary honors; they are but common coolies who, as you can readily see, impose on art when they pose for "cash."
I wonder if you have noticed while looking upon this scene that trees are deciduous about Canton?
This becomes an interesting fact when I remind you that we are here just within the tropics, Canton being only a few miles below the Tropic of Cancer, and that frost seldom occurs here.
The last snowfall, about seventy years ago, threw the inhabitants into superstitious consternation.
