Every one sought information, but could fine none; there was a perplexing mystery about all movements, and mystery always increases apprehension.
After I had been in Cheefoo three days, this apprehensiveness reached a climax.
Russian agents had engaged several hundred coolies to work on the Siberian Railway; they were placed on board a ship for transportation to Vladivostok when some misunderstanding about pay arose; then a suspicion was aroused among them that they were to become conscripts for military service in the Russian army.
They left the ship in rage and consternation, came ashore in sampans, when thousands of coolies and the rabble of the city gathered around them until the streets near the landing were blocked by a mob of many thousands.
This was at once construed as a Boxer uprising; the people of the settlement were thrown into a frenzy of terror; women fled to the small boats on the beach and were soon well out toward the warships; a small band of volunteers which had been organized for protection and composed of clerks and shopkeepers instantly donned their cartridge belts, seized their guns and formed across the street, at the farther end of which was a solid mass of infuriated coolies held back by a cordon of native police.
Missionaries with Winchesters and citizens with shot-guns joined the volunteers.
Every man's face showed an expression of fight "to the death."
Messengers had been sent to the Taotai (mayor) of the native city to call out the native troops.
He soon arrived in his official chair, accompanied by his usual retinue of subordinate functionaries, followed by a band of soldiers armed, not with their guns, but with bamboo flagellators.
After a conference between the Taotai and the European officials, the former harangued the mob, but it refused to disperse, whereupon he ordered the troops to charge with bamboos.
Then followed the funniest onslaught I have ever seen.
It was a spectacle that was suddenly changed from impending horror to the irresistibly ludicrous; a band of imperial soldiers, backed by a line of native police, rushed upon this impenetrable mass of bareheaded coolies, pelting heads and barebacks with relentless fury; the cracks of the bamboos resounded through the streets; they laid on heavy and fast; the front lines of the mob took the brunt, as the great mass was too solid to be quickly moved.
Those in the forefront howled with pain.
The Taotai sat in his chair and urged on the attack; the vigorously laid on strokes rang like pistol shots; after several minutes the dense black crowd began to fall asunder, when the soldiers could better distribute their blows; soon the wilderness of black heads was a pellmell of ignominious flight, and what might have proved a bloody uprising was averted.
The small plucky band of shopkeepers and missionaries returned to their several places of abode, the terrified women who were in sampans off shore were rowed back, and the consternation gradually subsided; but it was a baptismal scene in the Boxer war not to be forgotten, and showed, moreover, the magical efficacy of the bamboo as an arbitrator.
After five days a German merchant ship arrived, bound for Taku: I secured passage and on the following day reached the naval fleet lying ten miles off the mouth of the Pei-ho, in the bay of Pichili.
