Meanwhile the bride arranges herself in her best dress and richest jewels.
Her girlish tresses have already been bound up, and her hair arranged by a matron, with due formality; an ornamental and complicated headdress made of rich materials, not unlike a helmet or corona, often forms part of her coiffure.
Her person is nearly covered by a large mantle, over which is an enormous hat like an umbrella, that descends to the shoulders and shades the whole figure.
Thus attired she takes her seat in the red gilt marriage sedan, called hwa kiao, borne by four men, in which she is completely concealed.
This is locked by her mother or some other relative, and the key given to one of the bridemen, who hands it to the bridegroom or his representative on reaching his house.
The procession is now arranged with the addition of as many red boxes and trays to contain the wardrobe, kitchen utensils and the feast, as the means of the family or the paraphernalia require.
As the procession approaches the bridegroom's house the courier hastens forward to announce its coming, whereupon the music strikes up, and fire-crackers salute her until she enters the gate.
As she approaches the door the bridegroom conceals himself, but the go-between brings forward a young child to salute her, while going to seek the closeted bridegroom.
He approaches with becoming gravity and opens the sedan to hand out his bride, she still retaining the hat and mantle; they approach the ancestral tablet, which they reverence with three bows, and then seat themselves at a table on which are two cups of spirits.
The go-between serves them, though the bride can only make the motion of drinking, as the large hat completely covers her face.
They soon retire into a chamber, where the husband removes the hat and mantle from his wife and sees her, perhaps for the first time in his life.
After he has considered her for some time, the guests and friends enter the room to survey her, when each one is allowed to express an opinon; the criticisms of the women are severest, perhaps because they remember the time they stood in her unpleasant position.
This cruel examination being over, she is introduced to her husband's parents and then salutes her own.
