Yesterday the cannonading was heavy, especially on account of several lyddite twelve-pound naval guns brought from British ships-indeed, they had been brought direct from Ladysmith, in the Transvaal, and bore each a tablet with the significant device, "From Ladysmith to Tien-tsin."
During the past night the measured tread of soldiers never ceased.
We suspected some unusual movement was on foot; but in time of war civilians and common soldiers never know the import of military movements.
At two o'clock in the morning the far-fetched twelve-pounders from the antipodes 2 II were in action.
The night movement of troops was the gathering of the Allies for a general attack on the Native City of Tien-tsin.
Americans, English, Japanese, Welsh, French and a few Austrians, numbering in all, over eight thousand, had moved out, under cover of darkness, to gain an advantageous position for an early general attack.
That West Arsenal, the cluster of buildings and tall chimneys in the distance to the left, has, up to a few days ago, been in active operation, turning out all sorts of modern munitions of war.
Soon after the investment of the European settlement, this arsenal was bombarded and the Chinese driven out; shortly they reoccupied it, and only a few days before the battle now in progress it was shelled again and burned.
It is in the center of the line of advance of the Allies.
It is called the West Arsenal in contradistinction to the East Arsenal, lying at an equal distance on the opposite side of the Pei-ho, or directly behind us, as we stand here.
The East Arsenal, which we shall see later, was captured and burned by the first relief force to Tien-tsin.
Both these arsenals contained all the latest modern facilities for the manufacture of war material.
The distance from where we stand to the West Arsenal is about two miles; from the arsenal to the Native City it is a little more than half that distance.
As we have said, the objective point of the Allies is the South Gate of the Native City, which lies directly north of the arsenal and in line with it.
A poor road extends from the arsenal across a muddy and grassy plain to the South Gate, sometimes called the Taku Gate.
The brick wall surrounding the river city is twenty-five feet high and from ten to fifteen feet thick, with four principal gates.
A mile or over from this wall is the circumvallation of clay, the earth or "mud-wall," some fifteen feet high, which serves as a first line of defense.
At the left of the arsenal you can see a dark line extending toward our left; that is the famous "mudwall" mentioned so frequently in connection with the exigencies of the Boxer war.
The center of our present field of vision is the center of the advance of the Allies in the forenoon; later in the day the lines advanced slowly and with great difficulty toward the city.
You can scarcely see a dark line extending from the arsenal toward the right, marking the line of the road to the city.
But to the left and to the right of that road, we remember the Allied forces deployed in the following order from left to right: American Marines, Welsh Fusiliers, Japanese, British Marines, Eighth United States Infantry.
At this distance of two miles the field of battle seems small, but remember that it embraces five or six square miles before us in this direction, and, when we turn in an opposite direction and look across the Pei-ho, we will see another field of an equal area covered by the Russian wing of the Allies.
It is uncertain whether we can now distinguish troops or not; but at times during the battle we could distinguish the different soldiers without our field-glasses, and with them, very distinctly.
You can dimly see off to the right the line of the city wall vanishing in the distant horizon; and the exact position of the American Ninth Infantry is indicated by those black objects, far to the right, in the hazy distance.
Indeed, I have scarcely been able to convince myself that those dark objects are not the blue shirts of the brave boys of the Ninth; that is the exact position they occupied at midday, when they found shelter for a time behind some mud-houses.
It was there they encountered a deadly flank fire from a range of loop-holed walls not two hundred yards distant.
It was near that point, also, that Colonel Liscom fell.
I must remind you that native villages surround the city, outside the walls, and that these places were filled with Boxers well protected and firing from loop-holes.
