The little girls are placed in front, the larger ones in the rear; they all engage in the exercises with eagerness and animation and acquit themselves seemingly as well as Western girls could do.
I desire especially to call your attention to their bright faces.
On several occasions before I have asked you to notice the sad and expressionless faces in native groups; but these countenances are scarcely more than half Mongolian; they are bright and cheerful.
This is partially owing to the fact that they have just been looking through the stereoscope and are at this moment being immortalized after the fashion of the subjects of the views they have seen, and partly to the loving influence of their kindly teacher.
We find here no bare feet nor dirty faces, no soiled garments; all are neat and tidy, and from refined homes and under a faithful American teacher.
The eager and uncontrollable desire of these children to see themselves in the stereoscope was almost pitiful.
Some four months later when I returned from Pekin and the North, I secured a stereoscope for their teacher with a picture of the class.
I found the school had been removed to safer quarters within the settlement.
When the stereoscope and the pictures were presented to Miss Cogdal she could scarcely repress her clamorous, importunate pupils, who clung to her skirts, awaiting their turns to witness their own faces under the magical effect, as it seemed to them, of the stereoscope.
Keeping in mind that those pupils in the rear of the line are young ladies, I must tell you how carefully girls of the upper class are reared as regards moral and social training; though we are not to forget that China is full of paradoxes and contradictions.
I have, heretofore, told you that women are slaves and playthings and held in but slight respect.
Now I am about to tell you how carefully the better class are trained in moral and domestic duty.
In reconciliation of these paradoxical statements, let me quote from a preface of a most interesting little book translated from the Chinese by Mrs. S. L. Baldwin: "Few people in the West have any intelligent conception of the remarkable civilization that has existed in China for hundreds of years, and this in strange contrast with her squalor, poverty and heathenism."
Wherever we go in this "Flowery Kingdom" we are meeting these contradictions, viz.: remarkable civilization and amazing barbarism; so that one is constantly admiring and as constantly in a mood of imprecation.
The little book to whose translation I have referred, is a book of etiquette entitled: "Instruction for Chinese Women and Girls."
This extraordinary little book of etiquette was written over eighteen hundred years ago by one Pang Tai Ku, a very celebrated literary woman, and her instructions are so remarkable when we consider the time at which they were written that I cannot refrain from quoting some portions to you while these little girls and young ladies are before you; because we can scarcely help associating their grace and good breeding with such moral teaching as has come down through the centuries from Pang Tai Ku.
Let me first give you the introduction to this venerable book of etiquette: "Tai Ku, your handmaid, is of an illustrious family and was a philosopher's wife.
I have tried to perfect myself in the four womanly virtues, which are: First, carefulness of deportment, which includes manners, dress, and all IIO outward conduct; second, all womanly duties; third, talking little and that of profit; fourth, to be virtuous.
Having but few duties, I made books a study.
I also earnestly tried to follow the example of the nine upright women' and 'three chaste ones' (ancient Chinese women distinguished for their virtues).
"It is lamentable that succeeding women have not followed in their footsteps.
Because of this I have prepared this book and desire it to be carefully handed down for the benefit of girls and women."
ON THE CULTIVATION OF VIRTUE.
All girls everywhere, First should learn to cultivate virtue.
Of cultivating virtue's method, The most important is To be pure and upright in morals; If pure, you are clean inside and outside; Chastity is your body's glory; Having it, all your acts shine.
When walking, look straight, turn not your head; Talking, restrain your voice within your teeth; Sitting, don't shake your knees-a common fault with men.
Standing, keep quiet your skirts; When pleased, laugh not aloud; If angry, still make no noise; USING THE NEEDLE.
To embroider shoes, stitch stockings, Mend clothes, and unite cloth, Trim and quilt garments, III All such work should you be able to do.
If you follow these instructions, Whether it be cold or warm, You will have suitable clothing, And rags and poverty you will not know.
Do not imitate lazy women Who from youth to womanhood have been stupid Not having exerted themselves in woman's work.
They are prepared for neither cold nor warm weather.
Their sewing is so miserable People both laugh at and despise them.
The idle girl going forth to be married, Injures the reputation of her husband's whole family.
Her clothes are ragged and dirty.
She vainly pulls the West over to cover the East(A sly pull to hide a rent).
She is a disgrace to her village.
I thus exhort and warn the girls, Let them hear and learn.
ON ATTENTION TO DOMESTIC DUTIES.
Girls must learn to sweep and clean; What cannot be swept must be washed.
Think not such work unimportant; Everyone will see your neatness, And your whole house will be bright.
Industry builds the house, Idleness will pull it down.
Great riches are the gift of Heaven, A satisfying supply the gift of Industry.
ON THE TREATMENT OF GUESTS.
All families should be hospitable.
When a guest is expected, See that the chairs and tables, Plates and bowls are all in order.
If it is a male guest, The wife may not be seen, But, near the reception room Await her husband's orders.
If tea is wanted, See that it is promptly brought.
If the guest remains to eat and sleep, Wait for the husband to come And say what he wishes prepared; Whether to kill chickens or cook vegetables, Or only offer refreshments.
Do not imitate those careless women Who do not look after the reception room; Who are hurried and without self-possession, And therefore do nothing properly.
Such are very angry When the husband invites a guest to stay.
They bring chop-sticks but no spoons; Salt but no pepper.
Before the guest has eaten They are eating; They whip the boys, And scold the girls, And all is confusion.
Such disgrace their husbands, And mortify the guests.
If a guest arrives When the husband is absent, Send a small child to inquire Whence he comes.
If he looks like a friend, Send and ask his name And invite him to enter, Then with hair in order and dress neat, The wife may enter the reception room And present her salutation.
Then let the tea be served, And observe all politeness.
After he has taken tea, She should inquire his business, And if he is a very near friend or relation, She may invite him to await her husband's return.
But if he desires to go, She may accompany him only To the reception room entrance.
I exhort all women to follow these instructions.
ON THE INSTRUCTION OF CHILDREN.
Girls must dwell in secluded rooms; Seldom permit them to go outside.
When they are called they must come; When told to go, let them obey.
If disobedient in the least, Use small switches and punish them.
The present generation's children Are very bad; They have learned nothing.
Boys know not how to read; They grow up following their own wills, Drinking wine and seeking only amusement, Living idle and useless lives, Singing songs and dancing, Disregarding their family duties, And fearing not their country's laws.
Girls too are unwilling to learn; They are stubborn and talkative; They know little of woman's duties.
Thus they injure themselves and their superiors.
When grown they find themselves disgraced.
Then they are displeased with their parents, And think not to blame themselves; Their evil words hurt their parents' ears.
Such girls are worse than wild-cats!
Do not the foregoing quaint precepts written over eighteen hundred years ago plainly tell us that human nature never changes; that proprieties were the same then as now, and that boys and girls were boys and girls eighteen hundred years ago, and after all, human nature in the East is human nature in the West.
By this time our class must be weary with supporting those dumbbells.
So we will say good-by to our patient, gentle group of Mongolian lassies and take "rikishas" five or six miles farther out and southward to a village called Loong Wah, where once a year, during what is called the Peach-blossom Festival, the native inhabitants gather in great numbers to celebrate the bloom and promise of spring.
One of the most remarkable features of this festival celebration is the number of beggars gathered by the roadside on the way to Loong Wah.
We will have only time and opportunity to look at one of these beggars; but he being the king of beggars, we will consider him a fitting representative of the whole race.

