The long gowns and peculiar headdress of these women stamp them as Manchus.
Their feet were never bound and as a rule they are taller than Chinese women.
These are Christian Manchus.
This group and the group of Chinese women are taken from among several hundred refuges of the London Mission just after the siege of Pekin, and are at this time under the faithful guardianship of a Miss Smith.
The Church and School property of the London Mission was entirely destroyed by fire, and the premises in which we now stand was the home of a Boxer leader, and were, after the relief of the legations, occupied by this mission and its host of homeless refugees which we will show you soon.
At the request of Miss Smith the members of both groups hurried to their several apartments to don their best gowns and frills to appear before the foreigner's picture-making device.
It seemed to be their highest pleasure to do Miss Smith's will, and well it might be; she had led them through fire and siege and was then feeding them on the results of her zealous efforts.
Have you discerned in these Manchu faces a much lighter complexion and more prominent noses, and that their countenances generally indicate greater intellectual capacity?
Have you observed that they are larger physically than the Chinese women?
And I must tell you that some authorities consider the Manchus the most improvable race in central Asia, and possibly on the Continent, and many consider their administration of the government in general as superior to that of the native sovereigns, notwithstanding the maladministration of the present Empress.
The men do not wear queues and the women do not bind their feet.
I was at once impressed with the superiority of those I met.
These are really the descendants of those vigorous Oriental Northmen who compelled the Chinese to build the Great Wall the Tartars.
You will notice some difference in their dress, a different style of shoe, a different way of arranging the hair.
They display a wealth of richly embroidered silks and satins in their dress, as do the Chinese women.
Those shoes appear clumsy and inconvenient, and those huge cloth-covered blocks for soles are clumsy; but the marvelous fineness of the embroidered uppers quite atones for the heavy soles.
The Manchu women have shown to the Chinese women the advantages of natural feet over bound feet for two hundred and fifty years without any noticeable effect.
They look sturdy and unsentimental, but to see that they are not destitute of the poetic fancy we need only refer to their ancient books of poetry in which we shall find expressed all the finer feelings of the human heart that are found in poems of the present time.
I would like to show you while in the presence of these ladies some verses of Chinese poetry written about eight hundred years before Christ and freely translated into English by the eminent Dr. Legge.
Poetry and the fair sex are so often associated that no better opportunity will offer for presenting examples of the former than when we are in the presence of the latter.
The great book of Chinese poems is called the Shu King, and from it we give the following madrigal: Maiden fair, so sweet, retiring, At the tryst I wait for thee; Still I pause in doubt, inquiring Why thou triflest thus with me.
Oh! the maid so coy, so handsome, Pledged she with a rosy reed; Than the reed is she more winsome.
Love with beauty hard must plead.
In the meadows sought we flowers, Thus she gave me-beauteous, rare; Far above the gift there towers The dear giver-lovelier, fair!
And here is a little poem called Kan-tang, or the Sweet Pear Tree," written by a contemporary of Saul, and which seems to be an exact counterpart of "Woodman Spare That Tree":
I. O fell not the sweet pear-tree! See how its branches spread.
Spoil not its shade, For Shao's chief laid Beneath his weary head.
2. O clip not that sweet pear-tree! Each twig and leaflet spare'Tis sacred now, Since the lord of Shao, When weary, rested him there.
3. O touch not that sweet pear-tree! Bend not a twig of it now; There long ago, As the stories show Oft halted the chief of Shao.
The following are two stanzas directed against a certain Mrs. Pao Sz, a mischief-maker in the court of King Yu; they give a wicked thrust at the poor women folk by some disgruntled member of the long-haired fraternity who lived over seven hundred years B. C.-or may be they are by a rustic poet in the Province of Kwei-Chow where the custom of the Couvade prevails.
The Couvade is the custom whereby a mother gets up at once after the birth of a child and performs her usual work, while the father takes to bed for a month with the baby.
A wise man builds the city wall, But a wise woman throws it down.
Wise is she? Good you may her call; She is an owl we would disown!
To woman's tongue let scope be given And step by step to harm it leads.
Disorder does not come from Heaven; 'Tis woman's tongue disorder breeds.
Women and Eunuchs! Never came Lesson or warning words from them!
Hurtful and false, their spite they wreak And when exposed their falsehood lies-The wrong they do not own, but sneak And say, "No harm did we devise."
The Chinese women we saw a few minutes ago have gone to the ruins of the London Mission, a short distance in the rear of this place; these Manchu women now go to the same place, and we shall follow.
There we shall find assembled about the ruins of the church and school several hundred members of the Mission.

