This is Hankow, six hundred miles from the sea, and undoubtedly the greatest tea market in the world.
But it is European Hankow, and you have already learned that Europeanized cities in China and native cities are very dissimilar.
There are three native cities here, all within sight one of another and also lying adjacent to the foreign settlement before us; they are Wuchang, on the opposite side of the river, and Hanyang and Hankow, lying near together on this side.
It has been estimated that the three cities embrace a population of several millions.
Hankow signifies, in Chinese, the mouth of commerce.
It is, indeed, a great commercial center.
The river is navigable for men-of-war and the largest ocean steamers up to this point.
When I stood here a huge three-funnel merchant steamer from Odessa, Russia's great port on the Black Sea, lay at anchor in midstream.
Russians are the greatest tea-drinkers in Europe, and they drink Chinese teas almost exclusively.
Ships from all parts of the world come here for tea; so, I think, for gigantic tea-parties Hankow holds the record.
Do you see the tea being discharged from the ship on which we stand?
Our steamer brought a cargo from a point down the river to this place for transshipment, or possibly to be first transformed or pressed into what is called brick-tea.
Should we go ashore a little distance from this shipping front, we would see many places where tea is pressed into hard bricks, chiefly for shipment to Russia, although the best grades of tea are not put up in this manner.
Though this is the most important tea center in the world, I want to tell you that the nearest point where tea is grown is one hundred miles from Hankow.
This is merely a great shipping entrepôt.
Tea is brought here from the hill and mountain districts, where it is grown; it is brought from smaller ports up and down the river to Hankow, where it is sometimes repacked and sent to all parts of the world.
There are many docks such as this where lines of barefooted, bareheaded, and sometimes barebacked coolies form a ceaseless line between the ships and the "godowns," carrying chests of tea and uttering their weird, dolorous cry, which they think distracts the mind from the burden.
You cannot see an European among all those natives.
The tea is now altogether in the hands of Chinamen; from these landing “go-downs" it will be carried to the hongs, as business places are called in the East.
These chests of tea do not look exactly familiar; they are differently marked from those we are accustomed to see in our markets.
Much of the tea used in America is from Japan, and besides, teas from different parts of China are marked differently.
Have you noticed how high that bank of the river is?
I was greatly surprised to learn that at this place the difference between high and low water is often forty feet and over, sometimes reaching and flooding the streets above.
It has an annual overflow resembling that of the Nile.
I think you have not discovered that each coolie carries a small stick in his hand; they have a simple but a very infallible way of checking off the number of packages discharged; after the ancient fashion, each coolie delivers with each package a tallystick to a tally-man on shore.
The coolies generally have neither honesty nor arithmetic; but they can carry a tallystick, which is a substitute for both.
Not many in the West would like to carry these chests of tea ten hours a day in the hot sun at ten cents a day!
Yet this is "how the other half lives."
